# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Genesis 1:1 (id: 169952)

**What did God create in the beginning?**

God created the heavens and the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:1

## Genesis 1:2 (id: 169953)

**What was the Spirit of God doing in the beginning?**

The Spirit of God was moving above the surface of the waters.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:2

## Genesis 1:3 (id: 169954)

**How did God create light?**

God said, “Let there be light”.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:3

## Genesis 1:7–8 (id: 169955)

**What did God make on the second day?**

God made the sky between the expanses of water.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:7–GEN 1:8

## Genesis 1:10 (id: 169956)

**What did God call the dry ground and the gathered waters?**

God called the dry ground “Land,” and the gathered waters he called “seas.”

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:10

## Genesis 1:11–12 (id: 169957)

**What living things did God make on the third day?**

God made plants, fruit trees, and vegetation on the third day.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:11–GEN 1:12

## Genesis 1:14 (id: 169958)

**What is the purpose of the lights in the sky?**

They are to divide the day from the night, and as signs for seasons, and for days and years.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:14

## Genesis 1:16 (id: 169959)

**What did God make on the fourth day?**

God made the two great lights and the stars.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:16

## Genesis 1:21 (id: 169960)

**What did God make on the fifth day?**

God made the living creatures of the water, and birds.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:21

## Genesis 1:22 (id: 169961)

**What command did God give the sea creatures and birds?**

Be fruitful, and multiply.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:22

## Genesis 1:26 (id: 169962)

**What did God make in his image?**

God made man in his image.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:26

## Genesis 1:26 (#2) (id: 169963)

**Over what things was man made to rule?**

God made man to rule over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the sky, over the livestock, over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that moves upon the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:26

## Genesis 1:27 (id: 169964)

**What was different about how God made man?**

God created man in his own image.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:27

## Genesis 1:28 (id: 169965)

**What command did God give man?**

Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:28

## Genesis 1:29 (id: 169966)

**What did God give man to eat?**

God gave them every plant yielding seed and every tree with fruit.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:29

## Genesis 1:31 (id: 169967)

**When God saw everything that he had made, what did he think about it?**

God thought it was very good.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:31

## Genesis 2:2–3 (id: 169968)

**What did God do on the seventh day?**

He rested from all his work, and he blessed and sanctified the day.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 2:2–GEN 2:3

## Genesis 2:6 (id: 169969)

**Before Yahweh caused it to rain, how was the earth watered?**

A mist went up from the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 2:6

## Genesis 2:7 (id: 169970)

**How did Yahweh make man?**

Yahweh formed man from the dust of the ground and breathed the breath of life into him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 2:7

## Genesis 2:8 (id: 169971)

**Where did Yahweh first put the man?**

In the garden in Eden.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 2:8

## Genesis 2:9 (id: 169972)

**What two trees were in the midst of the garden?**

The tree of life and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 2:9

## Genesis 2:15 (id: 169973)

**What was the man to do in the garden?**

He was to work and take care of the garden.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 2:15

## Genesis 2:16–17 (id: 169974)

**What command did Yahweh give the man about what to eat?**

You may freely eat from every tree in the garden, except the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 2:16–GEN 2:17

## Genesis 2:17 (id: 169975)

**What did Yahweh say would happen if the man violated this command?**

In the day when the man violated the command, he would surely die.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 2:17

## Genesis 2:18 (id: 169976)

**What did Yahweh say was not good?**

He said it was not good that the man was alone.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 2:18

## Genesis 2:19 (id: 169977)

**What did Yahweh have the man do with every living creature?**

The man gave every living creature a name.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 2:19

## Genesis 2:20 (id: 169978)

**What was not found among all the living creatures?**

A suitable helper was not found for the man.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 2:20

## Genesis 2:22 (id: 169979)

**How did Yahweh make the woman?**

Yahweh caused the man to sleep and took one of the man’s ribs and made the woman from it.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 2:22

## Genesis 2:23 (id: 169980)

**Why did the man call her “woman”?**

Because she was taken from the man.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 2:23

## Genesis 2:24 (id: 169981)

**How do a man and woman become one flesh?**

The man is united to the woman as his wife.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 2:24

## Genesis 2:25 (id: 169982)

**Were the man and his wife ashamed of being naked?**

No.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 2:25

## Genesis 3:1 (id: 169983)

**What was the first question that the serpent asked the woman?**

The serpent asked the woman, “Has God really said, ‘You must not eat from any tree of the garden’”?

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:1

## Genesis 3:4 (id: 169984)

**When the woman said God told them they would die if they ate from the tree in the middle of the garden, what did the serpent say?**

The serpent said, “You will surely not die”.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:4

## Genesis 3:5 (id: 169985)

**What did the serpent say would happen to the man and woman if they ate of the fruit?**

The serpent said they would be like God, knowing good and evil.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:5

## Genesis 3:6 (id: 169986)

**What attracted the woman to the fruit of the tree?**

She saw it was good for food, pleasing to the eyes, and desirable to make one wise.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:6

## Genesis 3:6 (#2) (id: 169987)

**Who ate of the fruit?**

The woman ate, and gave some to her husband who also ate.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:6

## Genesis 3:7 (id: 169988)

**What happened to them when they ate of the fruit?**

When they ate, their eyes were opened and they knew that they were naked.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:7

## Genesis 3:8 (id: 169989)

**What did the man and woman do when God came into the garden?**

They hid themselves from God.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:8

## Genesis 3:10 (id: 169990)

**Why did the man hide himself from God when he came into the garden?**

The man hid himself from God because he was naked and therefor afraid.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:10

## Genesis 3:12 (id: 169991)

**Who did the man say was responsible for giving him the fruit?**

The man said the woman was responsible.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:12

## Genesis 3:13 (id: 169992)

**Who did the woman say was responsible for giving her the fruit?**

The woman said that the serpent deceived her.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:13

## Genesis 3:15 (id: 169993)

**What kind of relationship did God say he would cause to exist between the serpent and the woman?**

God said he would cause conflict between them.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:15

## Genesis 3:16 (id: 169994)

**What curse did God give the woman regarding childbirth?**

God greatly multiplied the woman’s pain in childbirth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:16

## Genesis 3:17 (id: 169995)

**What curse did God give the man regarding his work?**

God cursed the ground so that only by painful toil would the man eat from it.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:17

## Genesis 3:20 (id: 169996)

**What name did the man give the woman, and why?**

The man called the woman Eve, because she was the mother of all the living.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:20

## Genesis 3:21 (id: 169997)

**What did God make for Adam and Eve, and why?**

God made them garments of skins in order to clothe them.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:21

## Genesis 3:22 (id: 169998)

**Why did God say that now Adam must not eat of the tree of life?**

God said that since Adam now knew good and evil he must not eat of the tree of life, because he would then live forever.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:22

## Genesis 3:24 (id: 169999)

**What did God do to prevent Adam from eating from the tree of life?**

God drove the man out of the garden and placed cherubim there to guard the way to the tree of life.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 3:24

## Genesis 4:2 (id: 170000)

**What work did Cain and Abel do?**

Cain worked the soil, and Abel was a shepherd.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 4:2

## Genesis 4:3 (id: 170001)

**What offering did Cain bring to Yahweh?**

Cain brought some of the fruit of the ground.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 4:3

## Genesis 4:4 (id: 170002)

**What offering did Abel bring to Yahweh?**

Abel brought some of the firstborn of his flock and some of the fat.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 4:4

## Genesis 4:4–5 (id: 170003)

**How did Yahweh respond to the offerings of Cain and Abel?**

Yahweh accepted Abel’s offering, but did not accept Cain’s offering.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 4:4–GEN 4:5

## Genesis 4:5 (id: 170004)

**How did Cain react?**

Cain was very angry, and his face looked dejected.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 4:5

## Genesis 4:7 (id: 170005)

**What did Yahweh tell Cain he needed to do in order to be accepted?**

Yahweh told Cain to do what is right and he would be accepted.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 4:7

## Genesis 4:8 (id: 170006)

**Later, what happened with Cain and Abel in the field?**

Cain rose up and killed Abel.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 4:8

## Genesis 4:9 (id: 170007)

**When Yahweh asked Cain where his brother was, what did Cain say?**

Cain said, “I do not know. Am I my brother’s keeper”?

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 4:9

## Genesis 4:12 (id: 170008)

**What was God’s curse on Cain?**

God's curse on Cain was that the earth would not yield its strength to him, and he would be a fugitive and wanderer.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 4:12

## Genesis 4:15 (id: 170009)

**What did Yahweh do to make sure no one killed Cain?**

Yahweh put a mark on Cain.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 4:15

## Genesis 4:16 (id: 170010)

**Where did Cain go to live?**

Cain lived in the land of Nod, east of Eden.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 4:16

## Genesis 4:19 (id: 170011)

**Cain’s descendant Lamech had how many wives?**

Lamech had two wives.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 4:19

## Genesis 4:23 (id: 170012)

**What did Lamech tell his wives he had done?**

Lamech told his wives that he had killed a man.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 4:23

## Genesis 4:25 (id: 170013)

**What was the name of another son born to Adam and Eve?**

Another son of Adam and Eve was named Seth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 4:25

## Genesis 4:26 (id: 170014)

**What did people begin to do in the days of Seth’s son Enosh?**

People began to call upon the name of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 4:26

## Genesis 5:1 (id: 170015)

**Of what is chapter five of Genesis a record?**

Chapter five of Genesis is a record of the generations of Adam.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 5:1

## Genesis 5:1 (#2) (id: 170016)

**In whose likeness was mankind made?**

Mankind was made in God’s likeness.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 5:1

## Genesis 5:2 (id: 170017)

**What genders of mankind did God create?**

God created mankind male and female.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 5:2

## Genesis 5:5 (id: 170018)

**How long did Adam live?**

Adam lived 930 years.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 5:5

## Genesis 5:8 (id: 170019)

**How long did Seth live?**

Seth lived 912 years.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 5:8

## Genesis 5:14 (id: 170020)

**How long did Kenan live?**

Kenan lived 910 years.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 5:14

## Genesis 5:20 (id: 170021)

**How long did Jared live?**

Jared lived 962 years.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 5:20

## Genesis 5:24 (id: 170022)

**What was Enoch’s relationship with God, and what happened to him?**

Enoch walked with God, and God took him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 5:24

## Genesis 5:29 (id: 170023)

**What did Lamech say about his son Noah?**

Lamech said that Noah would give mankind rest from the work and the toil caused by the ground that Yahweh had cursed.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 5:29

## Genesis 5:32 (id: 170024)

**Who were the sons of Noah?**

The sons of Noah were Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 5:32

## Genesis 6:2 (id: 170025)

**When mankind multiplied on the earth, what did the sons of God do?**

The sons of God took for themselves wives from the daughters of mankind.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 6:2

## Genesis 6:3 (id: 170026)

**What did God now say about the length of life for mankind?**

God said that mankind would live 120 years.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 6:3

## Genesis 6:4 (id: 170027)

**Who were the mighty men of old, the men of renown?**

The mighty men of old were Nephilim born from the marriage of the sons of God with the daughters of men.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 6:4

## Genesis 6:5 (id: 170028)

**What did Yahweh see in the hearts of mankind in those days?**

Yahweh saw that the wickedness of mankind was great, and that their every thought was evil.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 6:5

## Genesis 6:7 (id: 170029)

**What did Yahweh decide to do with mankind?**

Yahweh decided to wipe away mankind from the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 6:7

## Genesis 6:8 (id: 170030)

**But who found favor with Yahweh?**

Noah found favor with Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 6:8

## Genesis 6:9 (id: 170031)

**What kind of person was Noah?**

Noah was a righteous man, without fault, and a man who walked with God.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 6:9

## Genesis 6:14 (id: 170032)

**What did God tell Noah to do before God destroyed mankind?**

God told Noah to build a boat.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 6:14

## Genesis 6:17 (id: 170033)

**How did God say he was going to destroy all flesh that has the breath of life in it?**

God said that he was going to bring a flood of waters upon the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 6:17

## Genesis 6:18 (id: 170034)

**But with whom did God establish his covenant?**

God established his covenant with Noah.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 6:18

## Genesis 6:18 (#2) (id: 170035)

**Who did God tell Noah to bring on the boat?**

God told Noah to bring his wife, his three sons, and his sons’ wives.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 6:18

## Genesis 6:19 (id: 170036)

**What animals were to be brought on the boat to be kept alive?**

Two of every kind of living creature, male and female, were to be brought on the boat.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 6:19

## Genesis 6:22 (id: 170037)

**How did Noah respond to God’s commands?**

Noah did all that God commanded him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 6:22

## Genesis 7:2 (id: 170038)

**Seven males and females of which kinds of animals were to go on the boat?**

Seven males and females of every clean animal and the birds were to go on the boat.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 7:2

## Genesis 7:4 (id: 170039)

**How long did God say the rain would continue on the earth?**

God said that the rain would continue for forty days and forty nights.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 7:4

## Genesis 7:6 (id: 170040)

**How old was Noah when the flood came upon the earth?**

Noah was six hundred years old when the flood came upon the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 7:6

## Genesis 7:9 (id: 170041)

**How did Noah bring the animals into the boat?**

The animals came to Noah two by two and went into the boat.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 7:9

## Genesis 7:11 (id: 170042)

**From which two sources did the waters of the flood come?**

The waters came from deep underground, and from the sky.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 7:11

## Genesis 7:16 (id: 170043)

**Once all the people and animals were in the boat, who closed the door?**

Yahweh shut the door after them.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 7:16

## Genesis 7:20 (id: 170044)

**How high did the water on the earth get?**

The water rose fifteen cubits above the tops of the mountains.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 7:20

## Genesis 7:21 (id: 170045)

**Because of the flood, what died upon the earth?**

All creatures that moved upon the earth, and all mankind, died.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 7:21

## Genesis 7:23 (id: 170046)

**Who were the only persons left alive on the earth?**

Only Noah and those with him in the ark were left alive.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 7:23

## Genesis 8:1–2 (id: 170047)

**How did God make the waters recede?**

God made a wind blow, the fountains of the deep were closed, and the rain stopped.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 8:1–GEN 8:2

## Genesis 8:4 (id: 170048)

**Where did the ark come to rest on the ground?**

The ark came to rest upon the mountains of Ararat.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 8:4

## Genesis 8:9 (id: 170049)

**What happened the first time Noah sent out a dove from the ark?**

The first time, the dove found no place to rest her foot, and she returned to Noah in the ark.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 8:9

## Genesis 8:11 (id: 170050)

**What happened the second time Noah sent out a dove from the ark?**

The second time, the dove returned with a freshly plucked olive leaf.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 8:11

## Genesis 8:12 (id: 170051)

**What happened the third time Noah sent out a dove from the ark?**

The third time, the dove did not return to Noah.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 8:12

## Genesis 8:13 (id: 170052)

**What did Noah see when he removed the covering of the ark and looked out?**

Noah saw that the surface of the ground was drying.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 8:13

## Genesis 8:17 (id: 170053)

**What did God want all the creatures on the ark to go and do as they left the ark?**

God wanted all the living creatures to be fruitful and multiply on the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 8:17

## Genesis 8:20 (id: 170054)

**What did Noah do when he left the ark?**

Noah built an alter to Yahweh and offering burnt offerings on the altar.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 8:20

## Genesis 8:21 (id: 170055)

**What two promises did God make to mankind at this time?**

God promised to never again curse the ground, and to never again destroy every living thing.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 8:21

## Genesis 8:21 (#2) (id: 170056)

**What did God say was man’s inclination from childhood?**

God said that man’s inclination from childhood was evil.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 8:21

## Genesis 9:1 (id: 170057)

**What did God tell Noah and his sons to do after they left the ark?**

God told Noah and his sons to be fruitful, multiply, and fill the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 9:1

## Genesis 9:3 (id: 170058)

**What did God give Noah and his sons now as food?**

God gave Noah and his sons both the green plants and every moving thing that lived as food.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 9:3

## Genesis 9:4 (id: 170059)

**How did God command that meat not be eaten?**

God commanded that meat not be eaten with the blood in it.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 9:4

## Genesis 9:4 (#2) (id: 170060)

**What did God say was in the blood?**

God said that the life was in the blood.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 9:4

## Genesis 9:5–6 (id: 170061)

**What did God declare was the penalty for shedding a man’s blood?**

God declared that the one who shed a man’s blood must have his blood shed.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 9:5–GEN 9:6

## Genesis 9:6 (id: 170062)

**In whose image did God make man?**

God made man in God’s image.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 9:6

## Genesis 9:9–11 (id: 170063)

**What covenant promise did God make with everything that lives on the earth?**

God made a covenant promise that never again will all flesh be destroyed by a flood.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 9:9–GEN 9:11

## Genesis 9:13 (id: 170064)

**What sign did God give of the covenant that he made with the earth?**

God placed the rainbow in the clouds as the sign of the covenant he made with the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 9:13

## Genesis 9:15 (id: 170065)

**What covenant promise did God make with everything that lives on the earth?**

God made a covenant promise that never again will all flesh be destroyed by a flood.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 9:15

## Genesis 9:16–17 (id: 170066)

**What sign did God give of the covenant that he made with the earth?**

God placed the rainbow in the clouds as the sign of the covenant he made with the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 9:16–GEN 9:17

## Genesis 9:18 (id: 170067)

**What were the names of the three sons of Noah?**

The names of the three sons of Noah were Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 9:18

## Genesis 9:20–21 (id: 170068)

**What happened to Noah after he planted a vineyard?**

After he planted a vineyard, Noah drank some of the wine and became drunk.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 9:20–GEN 9:21

## Genesis 9:23 (id: 170069)

**How did Shem and Japheth cover the nakedness of their father?**

Shem and Japheth walked backwards with a garment, while turned the other way, in order to cover the nakedness of their father.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 9:23

## Genesis 9:25 (id: 170070)

**What was the curse Noah put on Ham?**

Noah cursed Ham and said, “Cursed be Canaan. May he be a servant to his brothers’ servants.”

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 9:25

## Genesis 9:26–27 (id: 170071)

**Who did Noah bless?**

Noah blessed both Shem and Japheth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 9:26–GEN 9:27

## Genesis 10:5 (id: 170072)

**After the flood, the offspring of Noah eventually spread out on the earth in clans, and when they spread out, each clan had its own what?**

When the clans spread out, each clan had its own language.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 10:5

## Genesis 10:9 (id: 170073)

**For what was Nimrod, descendant of Ham, known?**

Nimrod was known as a mighty hunter before Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 10:9

## Genesis 10:10 (id: 170074)

**What was the first of Nimrod’s primary cities in the land of Shinar?**

The first of Nimrod’s primary cities was Babel.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 10:10

## Genesis 10:11 (id: 170075)

**In addition to the land of Shinar, what other area did Nimrod develop with cities?**

Nimrod also built cities in Assyria.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 10:11

## Genesis 10:15 (id: 170076)

**What was the name of Canaan's firstborn son?**

Canaan's firstborn son was Sidon.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 10:15

## Genesis 10:20 (id: 170077)

**After the flood, the offspring of Noah eventually spread out on the earth in clans, and when they spread out, each clan had its own what?**

When the clans eventually spread out, each clan had its own language and its own land.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 10:20

## Genesis 10:25 (id: 170078)

**What happened in the days of Peleg, descendant of Shem?**

In the days of Peleg, the earth was divided.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 10:25

## Genesis 10:31 (id: 170079)

**After the flood, the offspring of Noah eventually spread out on the earth in clans, and when they spread out, each clan had its own what?**

When the clans eventually spread out, each clan had its own language and its own land.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 10:31

## Genesis 10:32 (id: 170080)

**From where did the nations come that spread over the earth after the flood?**

The nations came from the clans of the sons of Noah.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 10:32

## Genesis 11:1 (id: 170081)

**Immediately after the flood, how many languages were there on the whole earth?**

Immediately after the flood, there was one language on the whole earth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 11:1

## Genesis 11:2 (id: 170082)

**Where did the people who migrated from the east settle?**

The people settled on a plain in the land of Shinar.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 11:2

## Genesis 11:4 (id: 170083)

**What did the people decide to do instead of spreading across the whole earth as God had commanded?**

Instead of spreading across the whole earth as God had commanded, the people decided to build a city and a tower.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 11:4

## Genesis 11:4 (#2) (id: 170084)

**What did the people want to make for themselves?**

The people wanted to make a name for themselves.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 11:4

## Genesis 11:7 (id: 170085)

**What did Yahweh come down and do to the people?**

Yahweh came down and confused the people’s language.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 11:7

## Genesis 11:7 (#2) (id: 170086)

**Why did God do this?**

God confused their language so they would not understand each other.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 11:7

## Genesis 11:8 (id: 170087)

**What did God cause the people then to do?**

God caused the people to scatter across the face of all the earth, as he had commanded.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 11:8

## Genesis 11:9 (id: 170088)

**What was the name of the city the people tried to build?**

The name of the city was Babel.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 11:9

## Genesis 11:10 (id: 170089)

**The offspring of which son of Noah are given in this chapter?**

The offspring of Shem, son of Noah, are given in this chapter.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 11:10

## Genesis 11:26 (id: 170090)

**Who was the father of Abram?**

The father of Abram was Terah.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 11:26

## Genesis 11:27 (id: 170091)

**Terah’s son Haran had a son with what name?**

Terah’s son Haran had a son named Lot.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 11:27

## Genesis 11:28 (id: 170092)

**Where did Terah live?**

Terah lived in Ur of the Kasdim (Chaldeans).

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 11:28

## Genesis 11:29 (id: 170093)

**What was the name of Abram’s wife?**

Abram’s wife’s name was Sarai.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 11:29

## Genesis 11:30 (id: 170094)

**What problem did Abram’s wife have?**

Abram’s wife’s Sarai was barren and had no children.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 11:30

## Genesis 11:31 (id: 170095)

**To where did Terah move with Abram, Sarai, and Lot?**

Terah moved to Haran with Abram, Sarai, and Lot.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 11:31

## Genesis 12:1 (id: 170096)

**While Abram was living in Haran, what did Yahweh tell Abram to do?**

Yahweh told Abram to leave his father’s household and go to the land that he would show Abram.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 12:1

## Genesis 12:2–3 (id: 170097)

**What promise did Yahweh make to Abram?**

Yahweh promised that he would bless Abram, make him a great nation, and bless all the families of the earth through him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 12:2–GEN 12:3

## Genesis 12:5 (id: 170098)

**Who traveled with Abram?**

Abram traveled with Sarai, his wife, and Lot, his brother’s son.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 12:5

## Genesis 12:5 (#2) (id: 170099)

**To which land did Abram travel?**

Abram traveled to the land of Canaan.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 12:5

## Genesis 12:7 (id: 170100)

**When Yahweh appeared to Abram, what promise did he make to Abram?**

Yahweh promised to give the land of Canaan to Abram’s offspring.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 12:7

## Genesis 12:8 (id: 170101)

**How did Abram worship Yahweh?**

Abram built an altar to Yahweh and called upon Yahweh’s name.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 12:8

## Genesis 12:10 (id: 170102)

**Where did Abram go as a result of a famine in the land of Canaan?**

Abram went to Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 12:10

## Genesis 12:12 (id: 170103)

**What was Abram concerned about as he entered Egypt?**

Abram was concerned the Egyptians would kill him and take his wife Sarai because she was beautiful.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 12:12

## Genesis 12:13 (id: 170104)

**What did Abram ask Sarai to tell the Egyptians about herself?**

Abram asked Sarai to tell the Egyptians that she was Abram’s sister.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 12:13

## Genesis 12:15 (id: 170105)

**What happened to Sarai when they entered Egypt?**

Pharaoh took Sarai into his household.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 12:15

## Genesis 12:17 (id: 170106)

**What happened to Pharaoh at this time?**

Yahweh afflicted Pharaoh and his house with great plagues.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 12:17

## Genesis 12:18–19 (id: 170107)

**What question did Pharaoh ask Abram?**

Pharaoh asked Abram why he had told him that Sarai was his sister instead of his wife.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 12:18–GEN 12:19

## Genesis 12:20 (id: 170108)

**What did Pharaoh do with Abram and Sarai?**

Pharaoh sent Abram and Sarai away.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 12:20

## Genesis 13:1 (id: 170109)

**To where did Abram travel after leaving Egypt?**

Abram traveled to the Negev.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 13:1

## Genesis 13:2 (id: 170110)

**What did Abram carry with him?**

Abram carried with him many animals and much silver and gold.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 13:2

## Genesis 13:6–7 (id: 170111)

**Why was there a dispute between Abram’s and Lot’s herdsmen?**

There was a dispute because the land could not support Abram and Lot living close together with all their possessions.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 13:6–GEN 13:7

## Genesis 13:9 (id: 170112)

**What offer did Abram make to Lot?**

Abram offered to Lot the choice of where to live, and then Abram would find his place to live by going the other way.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 13:9

## Genesis 13:10–11 (id: 170113)

**Where did Lot choose to live and why?**

Lot chose to move east and to live in the plain of the Jordan because it was well watered.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 13:10–GEN 13:11

## Genesis 13:12 (id: 170114)

**Where did Abram then live?**

Abram lived in the land of Canaan.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 13:12

## Genesis 13:13 (id: 170115)

**What kind of people lived in Sodom?**

The people of Sodom were wicked and sinful against Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 13:13

## Genesis 13:14–15 (id: 170116)

**At this time, what did Yahweh say he would give to Abram?**

Yahweh promised that all the land Abram could see from where he was standing would be given to him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 13:14–GEN 13:15

## Genesis 13:16 (id: 170117)

**How many offspring did Yahweh say Abram would have?**

Yahweh told Abram he would have more offspring than he could count, as many as the dust of the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 13:16

## Genesis 13:18 (id: 170118)

**Near what city did Abram then move?**

Abram moved near the city of Hebron.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 13:18

## Genesis 14:11–12 (id: 170119)

**What happened at Sodom as a result of the battle of the kings in the valley of Siddim?**

All the goods of Sodom were taken away, and Lot and all his possessions were also taken.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 14:11–GEN 14:12

## Genesis 14:14 (id: 170120)

**What did Abram do when he was told Lot had been taken away?**

Abram gathered his 318 trained men to pursue them.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 14:14

## Genesis 14:15–16 (id: 170121)

**Near what large city did Abram fight the kings, and what was the result of the battle?**

Abram fought the kings near Damascus, and he brought back the possessions, Lot, and the other people.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 14:15–GEN 14:16

## Genesis 14:17–18 (id: 170122)

**Which two kings met Abram when he returned?**

The king of Sodom and Melchizedek, the king of Salem, met Abram when he returned.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 14:17–GEN 14:18

## Genesis 14:18 (id: 170123)

**What was Melchizedek’s relationship to God?**

Melchizedek was priest of God Most High.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 14:18

## Genesis 14:18 (#2) (id: 170124)

**What did Melchizedek bring with him when he met Abram?**

Melchizedek brought bread and wine with him when he met Abram.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 14:18

## Genesis 14:19–20 (id: 170125)

**What did Melchizedek say to Abram?**

Melchizedek blessed Abram, and praised God Most High.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 14:19–GEN 14:20

## Genesis 14:20 (id: 170126)

**What did Abram do after Melchizedek spoke to him?**

Abram gave Melchizedek a tenth of everything.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 14:20

## Genesis 14:21 (id: 170127)

**What offer did the king of Sodom make to Abram?**

The king of Sodom offered to let Abram keep all the goods if Abram gave the people to the king.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 14:21

## Genesis 14:22–23 (id: 170128)

**Why did Abram not want any of the possessions?**

Abram had lifted up his hand to Yahweh, God Most High, and did not want the king of Sodom to be able to say that he had made Abram rich.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 14:22–GEN 14:23

## Genesis 14:23–24 (id: 170129)

**How did Abram respond to the king of Sodom’s offer?**

Abram said that he did not want any of the possessions, except what the young men had eaten and the share for the men that went with him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 14:23–GEN 14:24

## Genesis 15:1 (id: 170130)

**When Yahweh appeared to Abram, what encouragement did Yahweh give Abram?**

Yahweh told Abram not to fear, and that he was Abram’s shield and very great reward.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 15:1

## Genesis 15:2–3 (id: 170131)

**About what did Abram speak to God?**

Abram spoke to God of being childless and having his steward as his only heir.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 15:2–GEN 15:3

## Genesis 15:4 (id: 170132)

**Who did Yahweh say would be Abram’s heir?**

Yahweh said that one coming from Abram’s own body would be his heir.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 15:4

## Genesis 15:5 (id: 170133)

**How many offspring did Yahweh say Abram would have?**

Yahweh said that Abram would have offspring as numerous as the stars.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 15:5

## Genesis 15:6 (id: 170134)

**How did Abram respond to Yahweh’s promise, and what did Yahweh then do?**

Abram believed Yahweh, and Yahweh counted it to Abram as righteousness.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 15:6

## Genesis 15:8 (id: 170135)

**What question did Abram ask Yahweh about the land?**

Abram asked Yahweh, “How will I know that I will possess it”?

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 15:8

## Genesis 15:10 (id: 170136)

**What did Abram then do with the animals he was told to bring?**

Abram cut the animals in two and placed each half opposite the other.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 15:10

## Genesis 15:12 (id: 170137)

**What happened to Abram when the sun was going down?**

When the sun was going down Abram fell sound asleep and a deep and terrifying darkness fell on him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 15:12

## Genesis 15:13 (id: 170138)

**For how long did Yahweh say Abram’s offspring would be enslaved and oppressed?**

Yahweh told Abram his offspring would be enslaved and oppressed for four hundred years.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 15:13

## Genesis 15:14 (id: 170139)

**What did Yahweh say would happen to the nation that enslaved Abram’s offspring?**

Yahweh said that he would judge that nation.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 15:14

## Genesis 15:15 (id: 170140)

**How did Yahweh say Abram’s life would end?**

Yahweh said that Abram would die in peace at a good old age.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 15:15

## Genesis 15:16 (id: 170141)

**What would reach its limit before Abram’s offspring returned to the land promised them?**

The sin of the Amorites would reach its limit before Abram’s offspring returned.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 15:16

## Genesis 15:17 (id: 170142)

**That night, what happened amongst the pieces of the animals Abram had prepared?**

A smoking fire pot and flaming torch passed between the pieces of the animals.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 15:17

## Genesis 15:18–21 (id: 170143)

**What covenant did Yahweh make with Abram that day?**

Yahweh made a covenant with Abram that he would give this land to Abram’s offspring.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 15:18–GEN 15:21

## Genesis 16:1–2 (id: 170144)

**What idea did Sarai have for giving Abram a descendant?**

Sarai told Abram to sleep with her servant, Hagar, in order to have children by her.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 16:1–GEN 16:2

## Genesis 16:4 (id: 170145)

**What happened between Hagar and Sarai when Hagar conceived a child with Abram?**

After Hagar conceived, Hagar looked on Sarai with disrespect.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 16:4

## Genesis 16:5–6 (id: 170146)

**What complaint did Sarai bring to Abram, and how did Abram respond?**

Sarai complained that it was Abram’s fault that Hagar despised her, and Abram told Sarai to do what she thought best with Hagar.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 16:5–GEN 16:6

## Genesis 16:6 (id: 170147)

**How did Sarai treat Hagar after Hagar conceived, and what did Hagar do?**

Sarai treated Hagar harshly, and Hagar fled.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 16:6

## Genesis 16:9 (id: 170148)

**In the wilderness, what did the angel of Yahweh tell Hagar to do?**

The angel of Yahweh told Hagar to return to Sarai and submit to her authority.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 16:9

## Genesis 16:10 (id: 170149)

**What promise did the angel of Yahweh make to Hagar?**

The angel of Yahweh promised Hagar that her offspring would be too numerous to count.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 16:10

## Genesis 16:11 (id: 170150)

**Why was Hagar told to name her son Ishmael?**

Hagar was told to name her son Ishmael because Yahweh had heard her affliction.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 16:11

## Genesis 16:12 (id: 170151)

**How will Ishmael treat other people?**

Ishmael will be hostile against every man, and will live apart from all his brothers.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 16:12

## Genesis 16:13 (id: 170152)

**What name did Hagar give Yahweh?**

Hagar gave Yahweh the name, “The God who sees me."

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 16:13

## Genesis 16:16 (id: 170153)

**How old was Abram when Ishmael was born?**

Abram was eighty\-six years old when Ishmael was born.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 16:16

## Genesis 17:1 (id: 170154)

**How old was Abram when Yahweh appeared again to him to confirm his covenant with Abram?**

Abram was ninety\-nine years old when Yahweh again appeared to Abram.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:1

## Genesis 17:1 (#2) (id: 170155)

**What command did Yahweh give Abram concerning Abram’s way of life?**

Yahweh commanded Abram to walk before him blamelessly.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:1

## Genesis 17:5 (id: 170156)

**To what did Yahweh change Abram’s name, and what does the name mean?**

Yahweh changed Abram’s name to Abraham, which means “father of a multitude of nations."

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:5

## Genesis 17:8 (id: 170157)

**What did Yahweh give to Abraham’s offspring as part of the covenant?**

Yahweh gave Abraham’s offspring all the land of Canaan as part of the covenant.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:8

## Genesis 17:8 (#2) (id: 170158)

**What did Yahweh say would be the relationship between Abraham’s offspring and Yahweh?**

Yahweh said that he would be God to Abraham’s offspring.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:8

## Genesis 17:10–11 (id: 170159)

**What did Yahweh command be done as a sign of the covenant between Abraham and Yahweh?**

Yahweh commanded that every male be circumcised as a sign of the covenant between Abraham and Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:10–GEN 17:11

## Genesis 17:12 (id: 170160)

**At what age was a baby to be circumcised?**

A baby was to be circumcised after eight days.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:12

## Genesis 17:12–13 (id: 170161)

**What was to be done with foreigners who joined a household that was in covenant with Yahweh?**

Foreigners who joined a household in covenant with Yahweh were also to be circumcised.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:12–GEN 17:13

## Genesis 17:14 (id: 170162)

**What happened to any male who was not circumcised?**

Any male who was not circumcised was cut off from his people because he had broken the covenant.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:14

## Genesis 17:15 (id: 170163)

**To what did Yahweh change Sarai’s name?**

Yahweh changed Sarai’s name to Sarah.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:15

## Genesis 17:16 (id: 170164)

**What did Yahweh promise would come by Sarah?**

Yahweh promised that Abraham’s son would come by Sarah.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:16

## Genesis 17:17 (id: 170165)

**How did Abraham respond to Yahweh’s promise concerning Sarah?**

Abraham laughed and asked how a child could be born to a man and woman who were so old.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:17

## Genesis 17:19 (id: 170166)

**What did God say Abraham must name the son that would come by Sarah?**

God said that Abraham must name the son Isaac.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:19

## Genesis 17:19 (#2) (id: 170167)

**What did God say he would establish with Isaac?**

God said that he would establish his covenant with Isaac.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:19

## Genesis 17:20 (id: 170168)

**What promise did God make concerning Ishmael?**

God promised to bless Ishmael, to make him fruitful, and to make him a great nation.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:20

## Genesis 17:21 (id: 170169)

**What did God say he would establish with Isaac?**

God said that he would establish his covenant with Isaac.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:21

## Genesis 17:24–27 (id: 170171)

**After God left Abraham, what did Abraham do on that same day?**

On that same day, Abraham circumcised all the males of his household.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:24–GEN 17:27

## Genesis 17:25 (id: 170170)

**How old was Ishmael when he was circumcised?**

Ishmael was thirteen years old when he was circumcised.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 17:25

## Genesis 18:2 (id: 170172)

**As Abraham was sitting at his tent door, what did he see when he looked up?**

Abraham saw three men standing nearby him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:2

## Genesis 18:4–5 (id: 170173)

**What did Abraham offer the men?**

Abraham offered the men some water to wash, and he offered some food.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:4–GEN 18:5

## Genesis 18:9 (id: 170174)

**Where was Sarah when the visitor gave his prediction?**

Sarah was in the tent.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:9

## Genesis 18:10 (id: 170175)

**What prediction did the one visitor give concerning Sarah?**

The one visitor said that when he returned, Sarah would have a son.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:10

## Genesis 18:12 (id: 170176)

**How did Sarah respond to the visitor’s prediction?**

Sarah laughed to herself when she heard the visitor’s prediction.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:12

## Genesis 18:14 (id: 170177)

**What did Yahweh, the visitor, say about Sarah’s response?**

Yahweh asked why Sarah laughed, and said “Is anything too hard for Yahweh”?

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:14

## Genesis 18:16 (id: 170178)

**When the men got up, toward where did they look?**

The men looked toward Sodom.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:16

## Genesis 18:17 (id: 170179)

**What question did Yahweh ask as they walked?**

Yahweh said, “Shall I hide from Abraham what I am doing”?

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:17

## Genesis 18:19 (id: 170180)

**What did Yahweh say Abraham must do so that Yahweh might fulfill the promises given to Abraham?**

Yahweh said that Abraham must instruct his children and his household to do righteousness and justice.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:19

## Genesis 18:20–21 (id: 170181)

**Why were the men going toward Sodom?**

The men were going toward Sodom because the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah was great, and they wanted to see if the cities were as wicked as the outcry suggested.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:20–GEN 18:21

## Genesis 18:23 (id: 170182)

**As Abraham stood with Yahweh, what question did he ask Yahweh?**

Abraham asked, “Will you sweep away the righteous with the wicked”?

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:23

## Genesis 18:26 (id: 170183)

**What did Yahweh say he would do if there were fifty righteous within the city?**

Yahweh said he would spare the whole place for their sake.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:26

## Genesis 18:28 (id: 170184)

**What did Yahweh say he would do if there were forty\-five righteous within the city?**

Yahweh said he would spare the whole place for their sake.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:28

## Genesis 18:29 (id: 170185)

**What did Yahweh say he would do if there were forty righteous within the city?**

Yahweh said he would spare the whole place for their sake.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:29

## Genesis 18:30 (id: 170186)

**What did Yahweh say he would do if there were thirty righteous within the city?**

Yahweh said he would spare the whole place for their sake.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:30

## Genesis 18:31 (id: 170187)

**What did Yahweh say he would do if there were twenty righteous within the city?**

Yahweh said he would spare the whole place for their sake.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:31

## Genesis 18:32 (id: 170188)

**What did Yahweh say he would do if there were ten righteous within the city?**

Yahweh said he would spare the whole place for their sake.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 18:32

## Genesis 19:2 (id: 170189)

**When Lot saw the two angels coming into Sodom, what did he offer them?**

Lot offered that they stay at his home for the night and then leave in the morning.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:2

## Genesis 19:2 (#2) (id: 170190)

**What was the angels’ response to Lot?**

The angels said that they would spend the night in the street.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:2

## Genesis 19:3 (id: 170191)

**At Lot’s strong urging, where did the angels finally decide to spend the night?**

Finally, the angels went with Lot to his home for the night.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:3

## Genesis 19:5 (id: 170192)

**What did the men of the city who surrounded Lot’s house want Lot to do?**

The men wanted Lot to bring out the two men visiting him, so they could sleep with them.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:5

## Genesis 19:8 (id: 170193)

**What did Lot offer the men of the city instead?**

Lot offered the men of the city his two daughters instead of the two visitors.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:8

## Genesis 19:9 (id: 170194)

**How did the men respond to Lot’s offer?**

The men told Lot to stand back and they almost broke down the door.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:9

## Genesis 19:11 (id: 170195)

**What did the angels then do?**

The angels pulled Lot back into the house and struck the men outside with blindness.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:11

## Genesis 19:13 (id: 170196)

**What did the angels say they had been sent to do by Yahweh?**

The angels said they had been sent to destroy the city.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:13

## Genesis 19:14 (id: 170197)

**How did Lot’s sons\-in\-law respond when Lot told them to hurry and leave Sodom because it was about to be destroyed?**

Lot’s sons\-in\-law thought Lot was joking.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:14

## Genesis 19:15 (id: 170198)

**When morning dawned, what did the angels tell Lot to do?**

The angels told Lot to take his wife and daughters and get out of the city.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:15

## Genesis 19:16 (id: 170199)

**Why, despite Lot’s lingering, did the angels bring Lot and his family by their hands out of the city?**

The angels set them outside the city because Yahweh was merciful to them.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:16

## Genesis 19:17 (id: 170200)

**What instructions did the angels give Lot when they were outside the city?**

The angels told Lot and his family to flee for their lives and to not look back.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:17

## Genesis 19:22 (id: 170201)

**Where did the angel allow Lot and his family to flee?**

Lot and his family were allowed to flee to a small city called Zoar.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:22

## Genesis 19:24 (id: 170202)

**What did Yahweh do when Lot reached Zoar?**

Yahweh rained down sulfur and fire from the sky on Sodom and Gomorrah.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:24

## Genesis 19:26 (id: 170203)

**What did Lot’s wife do and what happened to her?**

Lot’s wife looked back, and she became a pillar of salt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:26

## Genesis 19:28 (id: 170204)

**What did Abraham see early in the morning as he looked down at all the land of the plain?**

Abraham saw smoke rising from the land like the smoke of a furnace.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:28

## Genesis 19:30 (id: 170205)

**To where did Lot then move and why?**

Lot then moved to a cave in the mountains because he was afraid to live in Zoar.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:30

## Genesis 19:31–32 (id: 170206)

**What plan did Lot’s daughters make involving their father?**

Lot’s daughters planned to make their father drunk, then lie with him so that they could have children.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:31–GEN 19:32

## Genesis 19:37–38 (id: 170207)

**Which two people groups came from the daughters of Lot?**

The Moabite and Ammonite people groups came from the daughters of Lot.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 19:37–GEN 19:38

## Genesis 20:1–2 (id: 170208)

**What did Abraham say about Sarah while he was living at Gerar?**

Abraham said that Sarah was his sister.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 20:1–GEN 20:2

## Genesis 20:3 (id: 170209)

**What did God say to Abimelech after he took Sarah?**

God came to Abimelech in a dream and told him that he was a dead man because he had taken a man’s wife.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 20:3

## Genesis 20:5 (id: 170210)

**What did Abimelech say to God he had been told by Abraham and Sarah?**

Abimelech said to God that Abraham had told him Sarah was his sister, and Sarah had told him Abraham was his brother.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 20:5

## Genesis 20:7 (id: 170211)

**What did God tell Abimelech to do, and what did God say would happen if he did not do it?**

God told Abimelech to return Sarah to Abraham; otherwise, he and all his people would die.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 20:7

## Genesis 20:8 (id: 170212)

**How did Abimelech’s men respond when they heard what God had told Abimelech?**

Abimelech’s men were very afraid when they heard what God had told him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 20:8

## Genesis 20:11 (id: 170213)

**Why did Abraham say he had told Abimelech that Sarah was his sister?**

Abraham said that he was afraid Abimelech would kill him because of Sarah.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 20:11

## Genesis 20:12 (id: 170214)

**In what way was Sarah actually Abraham’s sister?**

Sarah was the daughter of Abraham’s father but not of his mother.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 20:12

## Genesis 20:16 (id: 170215)

**What gift did Abimelech give Abraham?**

Abimelech gave Abraham 1,000 {shekels of} silver.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 20:16

## Genesis 20:16 (#2) (id: 170216)

**What reason did Abimelech give Sarah as to why he gave her brother a thousand pieces of silver?**

Abimelech told Sarah he had given a thousand pieces of silver to her brother to cover any offense against Sarah in the eyes of all that were with Sarah, so that she is vindicated.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 20:16

## Genesis 20:17 (id: 170217)

**What happened when Abraham prayed to God for Abimelech and his people?**

God healed Abimelech, his wife, and his female slaves so they were able to have children.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 20:17

## Genesis 21:2 (id: 170218)

**What did Yahweh do for Sarah?**

Yahweh visited Sarah and she bore a son to Abraham at the promised time.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:2

## Genesis 21:4 (id: 170219)

**When Isaac was eight days old, what did Abraham do?**

When Isaac was eight days old, Abraham circumcised him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:4

## Genesis 21:6 (id: 170220)

**What did Sarah say God had made her do?**

Sarah said that God had made her laugh.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:6

## Genesis 21:9 (id: 170221)

**On the day Isaac was weaned, what did Sarah see?**

Sarah saw the son of Hagar mocking.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:9

## Genesis 21:10 (id: 170222)

**What did Sarah tell Abraham to do with Hagar and her son, and why?**

Sarah told Abraham to drive out Hagar and her son, because Hagar’s son would not be heir with Isaac.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:10

## Genesis 21:11 (id: 170223)

**What was Abraham’s reaction to Sarah’s demand?**

Abraham was distressed by Sarah’s demand because of his son by Hagar.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:11

## Genesis 21:12 (id: 170224)

**What did God tell Abraham to do?**

God told Abraham to listen to Sarah.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:12

## Genesis 21:14 (id: 170225)

**Where did Hagar and her son go after Abraham sent them out?**

Hagar and her son went into the wilderness.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:14

## Genesis 21:18 (id: 170226)

**What did God tell Hagar he would do for her son?**

God said he would make the son of Hagar into a great nation.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:18

## Genesis 21:19 (id: 170227)

**How did Hagar and her son survive?**

God opened Hagar’s eyes and she saw a well of water.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:19

## Genesis 21:20–21 (id: 170228)

**What happened to Hagar’s son as he grew up?**

Hagar’s son lived in the wilderness of Paran, and his mother got a wife for him from Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:20–GEN 21:21

## Genesis 21:23 (id: 170229)

**What did Abimelech want Abraham to swear to do for him?**

Abimelech wanted Abraham to swear that he would not deal falsely with Abimelech or with his children or with his descendants. Abimelech asked Abraham to show to him the same covenant faithfulness that Abimelech had shown to Abraham.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:23

## Genesis 21:25 (id: 170230)

**What did Abraham complain about to Abimelech?**

Abraham complained to Abimelech about a well of water that Abimelech’s servants had seized from him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:25

## Genesis 21:28–30 (id: 170231)

**Why did Abraham give seven female lambs to Abimelech?**

Abraham gave seven female lambs to Abimelech as a witness that he had dug the disputed well.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:28–GEN 21:30

## Genesis 21:32 (id: 170232)

**Into what land did Abimelech return?**

Abimelech returned into the land of the Philistines.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:32

## Genesis 21:33 (id: 170233)

**What did Abraham do at the tamarisk tree in Beersheba?**

Abraham worshiped Yahweh, the eternal God.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:33

## Genesis 21:34 (id: 170234)

**Where did Abraham live for many days?**

Abraham lived in the land of the Philistines for many days.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 21:34

## Genesis 22:1–2 (id: 170235)

**What test did God give Abraham?**

God told Abraham to go the land of Moriah and offer Isaac as a burnt offering.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 22:1–GEN 22:2

## Genesis 22:3 (id: 170236)

**How did Abraham respond to God’s command?**

Abraham rose early in the morning and set out on his journey to the place God had told him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 22:3

## Genesis 22:5 (id: 170237)

**What did Abraham tell his two young men that he and Isaac were going to do?**

Abraham told his two young men that he and Isaac were going to worship and then would return.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 22:5

## Genesis 22:7 (id: 170238)

**What question did Isaac ask Abraham as they were walking together?**

Isaac asked Abraham, “Where is the lamb for the burnt offering”?

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 22:7

## Genesis 22:8 (id: 170239)

**How did Abraham answer Isaac’s question?**

Abraham said that God would himself provide the lamb for the burnt offering.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 22:8

## Genesis 22:9 (id: 170240)

**When they reached the place, what did Abraham prepare as the burnt offering and how did he do it?**

Abraham prepared Isaac as the burnt offering by binding him and laying him on the altar.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 22:9

## Genesis 22:12 (id: 170241)

**When Abraham took the knife in his hand, what did the angel of Yahweh tell Abraham?**

The angel of Yahweh told Abraham not to harm Isaac.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 22:12

## Genesis 22:12 (#2) (id: 170242)

**What did the angel say he now knew about Abraham?**

The angel said that he now knew that Abraham feared God.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 22:12

## Genesis 22:13 (id: 170243)

**How did God then provide the burnt offering for Abraham?**

There was a ram caught in the bushes behind Abraham: Abraham used it as the burnt offering.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 22:13

## Genesis 22:14 (id: 170244)

**What did Abraham call the place of the burnt offering?**

Abraham called the place, “Yahweh will provide.”

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 22:14

## Genesis 22:16–17 (id: 170245)

**What reason did the angel of Yahweh give for blessing Abraham?**

The angel of Yahweh said he would bless Abraham because Abraham had not withheld his only son.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 22:16–GEN 22:17

## Genesis 22:18 (id: 170246)

**Through whom and for what reason were all nations of the earth to be blessed?**

Through Abraham’s offspring, all the nations of the earth were to be blessed, because Abraham had obeyed the angel of Yahweh’s voice.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 22:18

## Genesis 23:2 (id: 170247)

**What did Abraham first do when Sarah died?**

When Sarah died, Abraham first mourned for her and wept for her.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 23:2

## Genesis 23:3–4 (id: 170248)

**What request did Abraham make to the sons of Heth?**

Abraham asked for a property to use as a burial place.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 23:3–GEN 23:4

## Genesis 23:5–6 (id: 170249)

**How did the sons of Heth respond to Abraham’s request?**

The sons of Heth offered the choicest of their tombs to Abraham.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 23:5–GEN 23:6

## Genesis 23:10–11 (id: 170250)

**When Abraham asked for Ephron the Hittite’s cave as a tomb, how did Ephron respond?**

Ephron offered to freely give Abraham the cave and the field next to it.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 23:10–GEN 23:11

## Genesis 23:12–13 (id: 170251)

**How did Abraham respond to Ephron’s offer?**

Abraham asked to pay for the field and the cave.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 23:12–GEN 23:13

## Genesis 23:14–15 (id: 170252)

**How did Ephron respond to Abraham’s offer?**

Ephron asked for 400 shekels of silver for the field and the cave.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 23:14–GEN 23:15

## Genesis 23:14–16 (id: 170253)

**How did the conversation between Abraham and Ephron end?**

Abraham paid 400 shekels of silver to Ephron for the piece of land.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 23:14–GEN 23:16

## Genesis 23:17–18 (id: 170254)

**What was included in the purchase of the field of Ephron which was in Machpelah?**

The field, the cave that was in it, and all the trees that were in the field and all around its border were included in Abraham’s purchase of the field of Ephron.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 23:17–GEN 23:18

## Genesis 23:19 (id: 170255)

**What did Abraham then do with the cave?**

Abraham then buried Sarah in the cave.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 23:19

## Genesis 24:2–4 (id: 170256)

**What did Abraham make his oldest servant swear to do?**

Abraham made his oldest servant swear that he would get a wife for Isaac from Abraham’s relatives.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:2–GEN 24:4

## Genesis 24:5–6 (id: 170257)

**What did Abraham insist that the servant not do with Isaac?**

Abraham insisted that the servant not take Isaac back to the land from which Abraham came.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:5–GEN 24:6

## Genesis 24:12–14 (id: 170258)

**What did Abraham’s servant ask God to do in order to show him which woman God had chosen for Isaac?**

The servant asked that the woman whom he asked to lower her pitcher to let him get a drink would do so and offer to water his camels also.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:12–GEN 24:14

## Genesis 24:15 (id: 170259)

**What relation was Rebekah to Abraham?**

Rebekah was the granddaughter of Nahor, Abraham’s brother.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:15

## Genesis 24:17–18 (id: 170260)

**What did Rebekah do when Abraham’s servant asked for a drink of water?**

Rebekah gave the servant a drink.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:17–GEN 24:18

## Genesis 24:19 (id: 170261)

**What did Rebekah say after she had finished giving the servant a drink?**

After Rebekah finished giving the servant a drink, she said, “I will draw water for your camels also, until they have finished drinking.”

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:19

## Genesis 24:26–27 (id: 170262)

**What did the servant do when he heard that Rebekah was related to Abraham and that he could spend the night with her family?**

The servant worshiped Yahweh and blessed him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:26–GEN 24:27

## Genesis 24:29 (id: 170263)

**Who was Rebekah’s brother?**

Laban was Rebekah’s brother.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:29

## Genesis 24:31 (id: 170264)

**What did Laban do when he met Abraham’s servant?**

Laban invited Abraham’s servant to stay at his house.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:31

## Genesis 24:33 (id: 170265)

**What did Abraham’s servant insist on doing before he ate?**

Abraham’s servant insisted on saying why he had come before he ate.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:33

## Genesis 24:40 (id: 170266)

**How had Abraham said that Yahweh would prosper the servant’s way?**

Abraham had said that Yahweh would send his angel with the servant to prosper his way.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:40

## Genesis 24:47 (id: 170267)

**What had the servant given Rebekah when he heard she was related to Abraham?**

Abraham’s servant had given Rebekah a gold ring for her nose and bracelets for her arms.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:47

## Genesis 24:50–51 (id: 170268)

**How did Laban and Bethuel answer Abraham’s servant when he asked them what they wanted to do regarding Rebekah?**

Laban and Bethuel answered that the servant should take Rebekah and go, so that Rebekah could be the wife of Abraham’s son.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:50–GEN 24:51

## Genesis 24:52–53 (id: 170269)

**What did Abraham’s servant do when he heard the answer from Laban and Bethuel?**

The servant bowed down to Yahweh. And then he gave gifts to Rebekah and to her brother and mother.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:52–GEN 24:53

## Genesis 24:54–55 (id: 170270)

**When they arose the next morning, what did Rebekah’s brother and mother want the servant to do?**

When they arose the next morning, they wanted Abraham’s servant to stay with them for a few more days.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:54–GEN 24:55

## Genesis 24:56–58 (id: 170271)

**When Abraham’s servant said that he wanted to go immediately, what did Rebekah say that she wanted to do?**

Rebekah said that she wanted to go with the servant.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:56–GEN 24:58

## Genesis 24:60 (id: 170272)

**What blessing did Rebekah’s family give her as she left with Abraham’s servant?**

Rebekah’s family blessed her that she might be the mother of thousands and that her offspring might possess the gate of those who hate them.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:60

## Genesis 24:63 (id: 170273)

**What was Isaac doing when Rebekah arrived at his home?**

Isaac was out in the field meditating.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:63

## Genesis 24:64–65 (id: 170274)

**What did Rebekah do when she saw Isaac?**

When she saw Isaac, Rebekah jumped down from the camel and covered herself with her veil.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:64–GEN 24:65

## Genesis 24:67 (id: 170275)

**What did Isaac do after Abraham’s servant recounted all the things that he had done?**

Isaac brought Rebekah into his mother Sarah’s tent and took Rebekah as his wife.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 24:67

## Genesis 25:1 (id: 170276)

**What did Abraham do after his wife Sarah died?**

Abraham took another wife named Keturah.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:1

## Genesis 25:5–6 (id: 170277)

**How did Abraham distribute his wealth?**

Abraham gave gifts to the sons of his concubines and gave all that he owned to Isaac.\\n\\n

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:5–GEN 25:6

## Genesis 25:7 (id: 170278)

**How many years did Abraham live?**

Abraham lived one hundred seventy\-five years.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:7

## Genesis 25:9 (id: 170279)

**Who buried Abraham?**

Both Isaac and Ishmael buried Abraham.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:9

## Genesis 25:18 (id: 170280)

**How did the twelve sons of Ishmael live with each other?**

The twelve sons of Ishmael lived with each other in hostility.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:18

## Genesis 25:21 (id: 170281)

**What did Isaac do because Rebekah was childless?**

Isaac prayed to Yahweh for his wife; Yahweh answered his prayer, and Rebekah conceived.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:21

## Genesis 25:23 (id: 170282)

**What did Yahweh say concerning the two children struggling within Rebekah’s womb?**

Yahweh said that there were two nations in her womb, one people stronger than the other, and that the older would serve the younger.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:23

## Genesis 25:25 (id: 170283)

**Who was born first, and what did he look like?**

Esau was born first, and he was red all over like a hairy garment.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:25

## Genesis 25:26 (id: 170284)

**Who was born second, and what was he doing as he was born?**

Jacob was born second, and he was grasping Esau’s heel as he was born.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:26

## Genesis 25:27 (id: 170285)

**What kind of man was Esau?**

Esau was a skillful hunter and a man of the field.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:27

## Genesis 25:27 (#2) (id: 170286)

**What kind of man was Jacob?**

Jacob was a quiet man who spent his time in the tents.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:27

## Genesis 25:28 (id: 170287)

**Who did Isaac love, and who did Rebekah love?**

Isaac loved Esau, and Rebekah loved Jacob.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:28

## Genesis 25:30 (id: 170288)

**What was another name for Esau?**

Edom was another name for Esau.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:30

## Genesis 25:31 (id: 170289)

**For what did Jacob ask in return for the red stew that Esau wanted to eat?**

Jacob asked for Esau’s birthright in return for the red stew.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:31

## Genesis 25:33 (id: 170290)

**What was Esau’s response to Jacob’s offer?**

Esau swore an oath and sold his birthright to Jacob.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:33

## Genesis 25:34 (id: 170291)

**How was Esau treating his birthright when he responded in this way to Jacob’s offer?**

Esau was despising his birthright when he responded to Jacob’s offer in this way.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 25:34

## Genesis 26:1 (id: 170292)

**Why did Isaac move to the city of Gerar where Abimelech was the king of the Philistines?**

Isaac moved to Gerar because there was a famine in the land.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 26:1

## Genesis 26:2 (id: 170293)

**What had Yahweh told Isaac before Isaac moved to Gerar?**

Yahweh had told Isaac not to move to Egypt, and to stay in the land about which he would tell Isaac.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 26:2

## Genesis 26:3 (id: 170294)

**What did Yahweh tell Isaac about the oath Yahweh had sworn to his father Abraham?**

Yahweh told Isaac that he would fulfill the oath which Yahweh had sworn to Abraham.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 26:3

## Genesis 26:5 (id: 170295)

**Why did Yahweh say he was going to do this?**

Yahweh said he was going to do this because Abraham had obeyed his voice and kept his instructions, commandments, statutes, and laws.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 26:5

## Genesis 26:7 (id: 170296)

**What did Isaac say to the men of Gerar about Rebekah, his wife?**

Isaac told the men of Gerar that Rebekah was his sister.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 26:7

## Genesis 26:9–10 (id: 170297)

**According to Abimelech, what could have brought guilt upon the people because of Isaac’s lie?**

Because of Isaac’s lie, someone could have had sexual relations with Rebekah and brought guilt upon the people.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 26:9–GEN 26:10

## Genesis 26:11 (id: 170298)

**What command did Abimelech give regarding Rebekah?**

Abimelech commanded that anyone who touched Rebekah would be put to death.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 26:11

## Genesis 26:16 (id: 170299)

**What reason did Abimelech give for asking Isaac to move away from the Philistines?**

Abimelech asked Isaac to move away from the Philistines because he said, “… you are mightier than we.”

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 26:16

## Genesis 26:18 (id: 170300)

**Why did Isaac have to dig out the wells of water which they had dug in the days of Abraham?**

Isaac had to dig out the wells of water which they had dug in the days of Abraham because the Philistines had stopped them up after Abraham’s death.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 26:18

## Genesis 26:22 (id: 170301)

**What did Isaac name the well over which the herdsmen of Gerar did not quarrel with him?**

Isaac named the well, over which the herdsmen of Gerar did not quarrel with him, Rehoboth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 26:22

## Genesis 26:23–24 (id: 170302)

**What did Yahweh reaffirm to Isaac when he appeared to Isaac at Beersheba?**

Yahweh reaffirmed that he would bless Isaac and multiply his offspring.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 26:23–GEN 26:24

## Genesis 26:28–29 (id: 170303)

**What covenant did Abimelech want to make with Isaac, and why?**

Abimelech wanted to make a covenant that neither side would harm the other, because he saw that Yahweh was with Isaac.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 26:28–GEN 26:29

## Genesis 26:30–31 (id: 170304)

**How did Isaac respond to Abimelech’s request for a covenant between them?**

Isaac made a feast, and they swore an oath with each other.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 26:30–GEN 26:31

## Genesis 26:34 (id: 170305)

**From what people group were the two wives of Esau?**

The two wives of Esau were from the Hittites.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 26:34

## Genesis 26:35 (id: 170306)

**How was the relationship between Esau’s wives and Isaac and Rebekah?**

Esau’s wives brought grief to Isaac and Rebekah.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 26:35

## Genesis 27:1 (id: 170307)

**As Isaac grew old, what was he no longer able to do?**

As Isaac grew old, he was no longer able to see.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:1

## Genesis 27:3–4 (id: 170308)

**What did Isaac ask Esau to do, and why?**

Isaac asked Esau to go hunt and make the sort of food that he loved, so that he could eat it and bless Esau.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:3–GEN 27:4

## Genesis 27:8–10 (id: 170309)

**What was Rebekah’s plan for providing the food for Isaac, and why?**

Rebekah told Jacob to go get two goats and she would make the food that Isaac loved, so that Jacob could take it to Isaac and receive the blessing.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:8–GEN 27:10

## Genesis 27:11–12 (id: 170310)

**About what was Jacob concerned in bringing the food to Isaac?**

Jacob was concerned that Esau was a hairy man and he was a smooth man, and that Isaac would touch him and find out that Jacob was a deceiver and curse him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:11–GEN 27:12

## Genesis 27:15–16 (id: 170311)

**How did Rebekah solve the problem of Esau being a hairy man, and Jacob a smooth man?**

Rebekah put Esau’s clothes on Jacob and put goatskins upon his hands and neck.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:15–GEN 27:16

## Genesis 27:20 (id: 170312)

**When Isaac asked, how did Jacob say he had found the game so quickly?**

Jacob said that Yahweh, Isaac’s God, had brought the game to him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:20

## Genesis 27:22–23 (id: 170313)

**Because he was not sure, how did Isaac try to determine who was giving him the food?**

Isaac touched Jacob on the hands and felt the hairy goatskins.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:22–GEN 27:23

## Genesis 27:24 (id: 170314)

**What did Jacob say when Isaac asked, “Are you really my son Esau”?**

Jacob said, “I am”.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:24

## Genesis 27:26–27 (id: 170315)

**What finally convinced Isaac that the person bringing the food was Esau?**

When Jacob came near Isaac to kiss him, Isaac smelled Esau’s clothes.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:26–GEN 27:27

## Genesis 27:29 (id: 170316)

**Who did Isaac say would bow down to Jacob?**

Isaac said nations would bow down to Jacob and that Jacob’s mother’s sons would bow down to him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:29

## Genesis 27:30–31 (id: 170317)

**What did Esau do soon after Jacob left Isaac’s tent?**

Esau came in from hunting, prepared the food, and brought it to Isaac.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:30–GEN 27:31

## Genesis 27:34–35 (id: 170318)

**What did Isaac say when Esau asked for Isaac’s blessing?**

Isaac said that Jacob had deceitfully taken away Esau’s blessing.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:34–GEN 27:35

## Genesis 27:36 (id: 170319)

**In what two ways did Esau say Jacob had cheated him?**

Esau said that Jacob had cheated him from his birthright and from his blessing.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:36

## Genesis 27:39–40 (id: 170320)

**What was the “blessing” that Isaac gave Esau?**

Isaac said that Esau would live away from the fatness of the earth, that he would serve his brother, but would eventually rebel against him and break off Jacob’s yoke.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:39–GEN 27:40

## Genesis 27:41 (id: 170321)

**What did Esau decide to do after Isaac’s death?**

Esau decided to kill Jacob after Isaac’s death.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:41

## Genesis 27:43 (id: 170322)

**What did Rebekah do after hearing Esau’s plans?**

Rebekah sent Jacob to Laban, her brother, in Haran.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:43

## Genesis 28:1 (id: 170323)

**What command did Isaac give Jacob before he left?**

Isaac commanded Jacob not to take a Canaanite wife.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 28:1

## Genesis 28:2 (id: 170324)

**Where did Isaac tell Jacob to get a wife?**

Isaac told Jacob to get a wife from the daughters of Laban, Rebekah’s brother.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 28:2

## Genesis 28:4 (id: 170325)

**Whose blessing did Isaac ask God to give Jacob?**

Isaac asked God to give Jacob the blessing of Abraham.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 28:4

## Genesis 28:8–9 (id: 170326)

**From where did Esau get one of his wives when he saw that the women of Canaan did not please Isaac?**

Esau took a wife from the daughters of Ishmael, Abraham’s son.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 28:8–GEN 28:9

## Genesis 28:12–13 (id: 170327)

**What did Jacob see in his dream while on the way to Haran?**

Jacob saw a stairway from earth to heaven with angels ascending and descending on it, and Yahweh standing above it.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 28:12–GEN 28:13

## Genesis 28:13 (id: 170328)

**What did Yahweh say about the land Jacob was lying on?**

Yahweh said that the land Jacob was lying on would be given to him and his offspring.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 28:13

## Genesis 28:13 (#2) (id: 170329)

**Whose blessing did Yahweh give to Jacob?**

Yahweh gave Jacob the blessing of Abraham.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 28:13

## Genesis 28:17 (id: 170330)

**What did Jacob say about the place where he had the dream?**

Jacob said the place was the house of God and the gateway of heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 28:17

## Genesis 28:19 (id: 170331)

**What name did Jacob give the place where he had the dream?**

Jacob named the place Bethel.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 28:19

## Genesis 28:20–21 (id: 170332)

**What did Jacob say Yahweh must do in order for Yahweh to be his God?**

Jacob said that Yahweh must be with him and watch over him on his journey so that he returned in peace to his father’s house.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 28:20–GEN 28:21

## Genesis 28:22 (id: 170333)

**What did Jacob promise to give Yahweh if Yahweh did these things for him?**

Jacob promised to give back to Yahweh a tenth of everything Yahweh gave Jacob.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 28:22

## Genesis 29:4 (id: 170334)

**From where were the men that Jacob talked to?**

The men were from Haran.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:4

## Genesis 29:6 (id: 170335)

**Who also came to the well with a flock of sheep?**

Rachel, daughter of Laban, also came to the well with a flock of sheep.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:6

## Genesis 29:10 (id: 170336)

**What did Jacob do for Laban’s sheep?**

Jacob rolled the stone from the well’s mouth and watered the sheep.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:10

## Genesis 29:12 (id: 170337)

**What did Jacob tell Rachel, and then what did she do?**

Jacob told Rachel that he was her father’s relative, and then Rachel ran and told her father.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:12

## Genesis 29:13 (id: 170338)

**How did Laban react when he heard about Jacob’s arrival?**

Laban ran to meet Jacob, embraced him, kissed him, and brought him to his house.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:13

## Genesis 29:16–17 (id: 170339)

**Describe the two daughters of Laban.**

Leah was the older daughter and she had delicate eyes, while Rachel was the younger and was lovely in form and appearance.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:16–GEN 29:17

## Genesis 29:18 (id: 170340)

**What arrangement did Laban and Jacob make concerning Jacob’s labor?**

They agreed that Jacob would serve Laban seven years in return for Rachel.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:18

## Genesis 29:20 (id: 170341)

**Why did the seven years of labor seem only like a few days to Jacob?**

The seven years of labor seemed only like a few days because of the love Jacob had for Rachel.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:20

## Genesis 29:23–25 (id: 170343)

**How did Laban trick Jacob?**

Laban gave Leah to Jacob, instead of Rachel, the night of the wedding.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:23–GEN 29:25

## Genesis 29:24 (id: 170342)

**Who did Laban give to Leah, to be her servant?**

Laban gave his female servant Zilpah to his daughter Leah, to be her servant.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:24

## Genesis 29:26 (id: 170344)

**Why did Laban say he had tricked Jacob?**

Laban said it was not their custom to give the younger daughter in marriage before the firstborn.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:26

## Genesis 29:27 (id: 170345)

**What arrangement did Laban and Jacob then make concerning Jacob’s labor?**

They agreed that Jacob would serve Laban seven more years in return for Rachel.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:27

## Genesis 29:29 (id: 170346)

**Who did Laban give to Rachel, to be her servant?**

Laban gave Bilhah to his daughter Rachel, to be her servant.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:29

## Genesis 29:31 (id: 170347)

**What did Yahweh do when he saw that Jacob did not love Leah?**

Yahweh caused Leah to become pregnant, but Rachel was childless.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:31

## Genesis 29:32 (id: 170348)

**What did Leah hope would happen if she bore sons for Jacob?**

Leah hoped that Jacob would love her if she bore sons for him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:32

## Genesis 29:32 (#2) (id: 170349)

**What was the name of Leah’s first son?**

The name of Leah’s first son was Reuben.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:32

## Genesis 29:35 (id: 170350)

**What did Leah say after she bore Judah?**

After she bore Judah, Leah said, “This time I will praise Yahweh.”

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 29:35

## Genesis 30:2 (id: 170351)

**According to Jacob, why did Rachel have no children?**

According to Jacob, God had kept Rachel from having children.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 30:2

## Genesis 30:3 (id: 170352)

**What did Rachel do in order to have children?**

Rachel gave Bilhah her servant to Jacob so Bilhah could have children on Rachel’s behalf.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 30:3

## Genesis 30:7–8 (id: 170353)

**Why did Rachel say that she had prevailed against her sister Leah?**

Rachel said that she had prevailed because Bilhah her servant bore two sons for Jacob.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 30:7–GEN 30:8

## Genesis 30:9 (id: 170354)

**What did Leah do when she saw that she had stopped bearing children?**

Leah gave Jacob Zilpah her servant so Zilpah could have children on Leah’s behalf.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 30:9

## Genesis 30:10–11 (id: 170355)

**What caused Leah to say, “This is fortunate”?**

Leah said, “This is fortunate” because Zilpah, her servant, bore Jacob a son.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 30:10–GEN 30:11

## Genesis 30:14–15 (id: 170356)

**What did Rachel offer Leah in exchange for her son’s mandrakes?**

In exchange for Reuben’s mandrakes, Rachel offered to let Leah sleep with Jacob that night

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 30:14–GEN 30:15

## Genesis 30:20 (id: 170357)

**How many sons did Leah bear for Jacob?**

Leah bore six sons for Jacob.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 30:20

## Genesis 30:23 (id: 170358)

**What caused Rachel to say that her shame had been taken away?**

When Rachel bore a son for Jacob, she said that her shame had been taken away.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 30:23

## Genesis 30:25–26 (id: 170359)

**What request did Jacob make to Laban after Joseph was born?**

Jacob requested that Laban let Jacob go with his family back to his own home and country.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 30:25–GEN 30:26

## Genesis 30:27 (id: 170360)

**Why did Laban not want to let Jacob go away?**

Laban had divined that Yahweh had blessed him for Jacob’s sake.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 30:27

## Genesis 30:32 (id: 170361)

**What wages did Jacob receive for his work for Laban?**

For his wages, Jacob took the speckled, spotted, and black sheep and the speckled and spotted goats from Laban’s flock that he tended.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 30:32

## Genesis 30:35–36 (id: 170362)

**How did Laban cheat Jacob concerning Jacob’s wages?**

Before he gave the flock to Jacob to tend, Laban first removed the animals that Jacob would have taken.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 30:35–GEN 30:36

## Genesis 30:37 (id: 170363)

**What kind of sticks did Jacob peel white streaks into?**

Jacob peeled white streaks into branches of fresh poplar, almond, and plane trees.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 30:37

## Genesis 30:38 (id: 170364)

**What did Jacob do with the peeled sticks?**

Jacob put the sticks that he had peeled in front of the flocks, in front of the watering troughs where they came to drink.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 30:38

## Genesis 30:39 (id: 170365)

**What happened when the flocks bred in front of the sticks?**

When the flocks bred in front of the sticks, they produced striped, speckled, and spotted young.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 30:39

## Genesis 30:42 (id: 170366)

**What was the result of Jacob’s breeding of the animals?**

The result was that Laban’s flock was feebler and Jacob’s flock was stronger.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 30:42

## Genesis 31:1–2 (id: 170367)

**From where did Laban and his sons believe Jacob had gotten all his wealth?**

Laban and his sons believed that Jacob had gotten all his wealth from Laban’s possessions.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:1–GEN 31:2

## Genesis 31:3 (id: 170368)

**What instructions did Yahweh give Jacob?**

Yahweh instructed Jacob to return to the land of his fathers and to his relatives.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:3

## Genesis 31:8–9 (id: 170369)

**How had God taken away the cattle of Laban and given them to Jacob?**

God had caused the animals to bear speckled and striped young, which were Jacob’s wages.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:8–GEN 31:9

## Genesis 31:14–15 (id: 170370)

**What attitude did Rachel and Leah have toward their father Laban?**

Rachel and Leah said that Laban treated them as foreigners and had devoured their money.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:14–GEN 31:15

## Genesis 31:19 (id: 170371)

**What did Rachel do before leaving with Jacob?**

Rachel stole her father’s household gods.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:19

## Genesis 31:20 (id: 170372)

**How did Jacob deceive Laban at this time?**

Jacob deceived Laban by not telling Laban that he was leaving.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:20

## Genesis 31:22–23 (id: 170373)

**What did Laban do when he was told that Jacob had fled?**

Laban took his relatives with him and pursued Jacob, overtaking him after seven days.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:22–GEN 31:23

## Genesis 31:24 (id: 170374)

**What did God tell Laban in a dream?**

God told Laban to speak neither good or bad to Jacob.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:24

## Genesis 31:31 (id: 170375)

**Why did Jacob say that he had fled from Laban secretly?**

Jacob said that he fled secretly because he was afraid that Laban would take his daughters from him by force.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:31

## Genesis 31:32 (id: 170376)

**What did Jacob say when Laban accused him of stealing his household gods?**

Jacob said that whoever stole Laban’s household gods would not continue to live.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:32

## Genesis 31:34–35 (id: 170377)

**Why did Laban not find his household gods among Jacob’s possessions?**

Laban did not find his household gods because Rachel sat on them and then said that she could not stand up since she was having her period.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:34–GEN 31:35

## Genesis 31:41 (id: 170378)

**How long had Jacob worked for Laban, and how many times had Laban changed his wages?**

Jacob had worked for Laban twenty years, and Laban had changed his wages ten times.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:41

## Genesis 31:43 (id: 170379)

**How did Laban show that he still thought of Jacob’s possessions as his own?**

Laban said that all that he saw of Jacob’s possessions was his.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:43

## Genesis 31:46 (id: 170380)

**How did Jacob and Laban mark the place of their covenant?**

Jacob and Laban marked the place of their covenant by making a pile of stones there.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:46

## Genesis 31:49–50 (id: 170381)

**Who was declared as witness between Jacob and Laban to ensure the covenant would be kept?**

God was declared as witness between Jacob and Laban to ensure that the covenant would be kept.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:49–GEN 31:50

## Genesis 31:51–52 (id: 170382)

**What were the pile and the pillar for?**

The pile and pillar were both witnesses to the covenant, which said that neither Laban nor Jacob would pass the pile or pillar to do one another harm.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:51–GEN 31:52

## Genesis 31:52 (id: 170383)

**What covenant did Jacob and Laban make?**

Jacob and Laban each agreed to not pass beyond the pile of stones to do the other harm.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:52

## Genesis 31:53 (id: 170384)

**What did Jacob do to show that he agreed to the covenant?**

To show that he agreed with Laban about the covenant, Jacob swore by God, whom his father Isaac feared.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:53

## Genesis 31:55 (id: 170385)

**What did Laban do the next morning?**

Laban rose, kissed his grandsons and daughters, blessed them, and returned home.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 31:55

## Genesis 32:3 (id: 170386)

**To whom did Jacob send a message on his way toward Canaan?**

Jacob sent a message to his brother Esau on his way toward Canaan.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 32:3

## Genesis 32:5 (id: 170387)

**For what purpose did Jacob send this message?**

Jacob desired to find favor in Esau’s sight.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 32:5

## Genesis 32:7–8 (id: 170388)

**What was Jacob’s reaction when he heard Esau was coming with four hundred men, and what did he do?**

Jacob was afraid, so he divided his people into two groups so that if Esau attacked one group, the other could escape.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 32:7–GEN 32:8

## Genesis 32:11 (id: 170389)

**What was Jacob’s request to Yahweh?**

Jacob asked Yahweh to deliver him from the hand of Esau.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 32:11

## Genesis 32:12 (id: 170390)

**Of what promise did Jacob remind Yahweh?**

Jacob reminded Yahweh that he had promised to prosper Jacob, and to make his descendants like the sand of the sea.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 32:12

## Genesis 32:20 (id: 170391)

**What did Jacob think he could accomplish by sending gifts to his brother Esau?**

Jacob thought that perhaps he could appease Esau with the gifts that he sent to Esau so that later, when Jacob saw him, Esau would receive him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 32:20

## Genesis 32:22 (id: 170392)

**How did Jacob end up being alone that night?**

He took his wives, servant women, and children across the ford of the Jabbok.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 32:22

## Genesis 32:24 (id: 170393)

**What did Jacob do that night until daybreak?**

Jacob wrestled with a man until daybreak.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 32:24

## Genesis 32:25 (id: 170394)

**What did the man do when he could not defeat Jacob?**

The man touched Jacob’s hip and dislocated it.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 32:25

## Genesis 32:26 (id: 170395)

**What did Jacob demand before he would let the man go?**

Jacob demanded that the man bless him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 32:26

## Genesis 32:28 (id: 170396)

**What did the man say Jacob would thereafter be called?**

The man said that Jacob’s name would now be Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 32:28

## Genesis 32:30 (id: 170397)

**Who did Jacob say he had seen face to face that night?**

Jacob said he had seen God face to face that night.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 32:30

## Genesis 32:32 (id: 170398)

**What physical problem did Jacob continue to have after that night?**

Jacob limped because of his hip after that night.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 32:32

## Genesis 33:2–3 (id: 170399)

**As Esau was coming to Jacob, in what order did Jacob put his wives behind him?**

Jacob put his female servants first, then Leah, and then Rachel.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 33:2–GEN 33:3

## Genesis 33:3 (id: 170400)

**What did Jacob do as he came near his brother?**

Jacob bowed toward the ground seven times as he came near his brother.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 33:3

## Genesis 33:4 (id: 170401)

**What did Esau do when he came to his brother?**

Esau ran to meet Jacob, embraced him, hugged his neck, and kissed him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 33:4

## Genesis 33:9 (id: 170402)

**What did Esau tell Jacob to do with the gifts he had sent ahead to Esau?**

Esau told Jacob to keep them for himself, since he had enough.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 33:9

## Genesis 33:11 (id: 170403)

**What two reasons did Jacob give Esau to accept his gifts?**

Jacob said that because God had dealt graciously with him, and because he had enough, Esau should accept his gifts.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 33:11

## Genesis 33:12–14 (id: 170404)

**Why did Jacob say he wanted Esau to go ahead, while he traveled more slowly?**

Jacob said he wanted Esau to go ahead because the flocks would die if they were driven too fast.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 33:12–GEN 33:14

## Genesis 33:14 (id: 170405)

**Where did Jacob say he was going to bring his family and his flocks?**

Jacob said he was going to bring his family and flocks to Esau in Seir.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 33:14

## Genesis 33:17 (id: 170406)

**To where did Jacob travel, where he built himself a house?**

Jacob traveled to Succoth, where he built himself a house.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 33:17

## Genesis 33:18–19 (id: 170407)

**To where did Jacob travel, where he bought a piece of ground?**

Jacob traveled to Shechem, where he bought a piece of ground.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 33:18–GEN 33:19

## Genesis 34:2 (id: 170408)

**What did Shechem, the son of Hamor, do when he saw Dinah, Leah’s daughter?**

Shechem took Dinah, assaulted her, and forced himself on her.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 34:2

## Genesis 34:5 (id: 170409)

**What did Jacob do at first when he heard about what happened to Dinah?**

Jacob held his peace until his sons came in from the field.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 34:5

## Genesis 34:7 (id: 170410)

**What was the reaction of Jacob’s sons when they heard what Shechem had done to Dinah?**

Jacob’s sons were very angry.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 34:7

## Genesis 34:8–9 (id: 170411)

**What did Hamor, the father of Shechem, want Jacob to do?**

Hamor wanted Jacob to give Dinah to Shechem as his wife, and to allow Jacob’s family to intermarry with Hamor’s family.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 34:8–GEN 34:9

## Genesis 34:12 (id: 170412)

**What did Shechem say he was willing to do to have Dinah as his wife?**

Shechem said he would pay as great a bride price as Jacob would name.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 34:12

## Genesis 34:13 (id: 170413)

**In what way did the sons of Jacob answer Shechem, and why?**

The sons of Jacob answered Shechem deceitfully, because Shechem had defiled Dinah.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 34:13

## Genesis 34:15 (id: 170414)

**What requirement did the sons of Jacob make to Hamor before they would agree to intermarry with Hamor’s family?**

The sons of Jacob required that all the males in Hamor’s family be circumcised.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 34:15

## Genesis 34:23 (id: 170415)

**When speaking to the men of their city, what did Hamor and Shechem say would be theirs if they intermarried with Jacob’s family?**

They said that all of Jacob’s livestock, property, and animals would be theirs if they intermarried with Jacob’s family.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 34:23

## Genesis 34:24 (id: 170416)

**How did the men of Hamor’s city respond when asked if they were willing to be circumcised?**

The men of Hamor’s city listened to Hamor and Shechem and every male was circumcised.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 34:24

## Genesis 34:25 (id: 170417)

**What did Simeon and Levi do on the third day after the males from Hamor’s family had been circumcised?**

Simeon and Levi attacked and killed all the males in Hamor’s city.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 34:25

## Genesis 34:27–29 (id: 170418)

**What then did all of the sons of Jacob do?**

All of the sons of Jacob looted the city, took all the wealth, and captured the children and wives.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 34:27–GEN 34:29

## Genesis 34:30 (id: 170419)

**How did Jacob respond when he learned about what Simeon and Levi had done?**

Jacob said that Simeon and Levi had brought trouble on him because the inhabitants of the land might now destroy him and his household.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 34:30

## Genesis 34:31 (id: 170420)

**Why did Simeon and Levi say they had done it?**

Simeon and Levi said they had done it because Shechem had treated their sister Dinah like a prostitute.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 34:31

## Genesis 35:1 (id: 170421)

**What did God tell Jacob to go and do?**

God told Jacob to go to Bethel and to build an altar to God.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 35:1

## Genesis 35:2 (id: 170422)

**What did Jacob then tell the people of his household to do?**

Jacob told them to put away their foreign gods, to purify themselves, and to change their clothes.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 35:2

## Genesis 35:5 (id: 170423)

**As they traveled, why did the people of the cities around Jacob and his household not pursue them?**

The people of the cities around them did not pursue them because they were afraid of God.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 35:5

## Genesis 35:7 (id: 170424)

**Why did Jacob call the place they came to “Elbethel”?**

Jacob called it “Elbethel” because it was the place God had revealed himself to Jacob when Jacob was fleeing from Esau.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 35:7

## Genesis 35:10 (id: 170425)

**What new name did God give Jacob?**

God gave Jacob the new name Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 35:10

## Genesis 35:12 (id: 170426)

**What promise did God reaffirm to Israel?**

God reaffirmed the promise that Israel would become a company of nations with kings among his descendants, and that the land that God had promised to Abraham and Isaac would be given to him and his descendants.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 35:12

## Genesis 35:18–19 (id: 170427)

**What happened to Rachel as she gave birth to Benjamin?**

Rachel died after she gave birth to Benjamin.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 35:18–GEN 35:19

## Genesis 35:22 (id: 170428)

**Israel heard about what thing that Reuben had done?**

Israel heard that Reuben had slept with Bilhah, Israel’s concubine.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 35:22

## Genesis 35:22 (#2) (id: 170429)

**How many sons did Jacob have?**

Jacob had twelve sons.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 35:22

## Genesis 35:24 (id: 170430)

**Which sons of Jacob were born from Rachel?**

Joseph and Benjamin were born from Rachel.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 35:24

## Genesis 35:28 (id: 170431)

**How many years did Isaac live?**

Isaac lived 180 years.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 35:28

## Genesis 35:29 (id: 170432)

**Who buried Isaac?**

Esau and Jacob buried Isaac.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 35:29

## Genesis 36:1 (id: 170433)

**By what other name are the generations of Esau called?**

The generations of Esau are also called Edom.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 36:1

## Genesis 36:2 (id: 170434)

**From where did Esau get his wives?**

Esau took his wives from the Canaanites.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 36:2

## Genesis 36:6–7 (id: 170435)

**Why did Esau move away from his brother Jacob?**

Esau moved away from his brother Jacob because the land could not support both of them as their possessions were too many.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 36:6–GEN 36:7

## Genesis 36:8 (id: 170436)

**Where did Esau settle?**

Esau settled in the mountains of Seir.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 36:8

## Genesis 36:12 (id: 170437)

**What was the name of the son born by Timna, a concubine of Esau’s firstborn son Eliphaz?**

The name of the son born by Timna was Amalek.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 36:12

## Genesis 36:15–16 (id: 170438)

**What was the name of the son born by Timna, a concubine of Esau’s firstborn son Eliphaz?**

The name of the son born by Timna was Amalek.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 36:15–GEN 36:16

## Genesis 36:20 (id: 170439)

**Who was the father of the inhabitants of the land in which Edom lived?**

Seir the Horite was the father of the inhabitants of the land in which Edom lived.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 36:20

## Genesis 36:31 (id: 170440)

**What did the people of Edom have before Israel had them?**

The people of Edom had kings before any king reigned over the sons of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 36:31

## Genesis 36:43 (id: 170441)

**Who was the father of the Edomites?**

Esau was the father of the Edomites.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 36:43

## Genesis 37:1 (id: 170442)

**Where did Jacob live?**

Jacob lived in the land of Canaan.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 37:1

## Genesis 37:2 (id: 170443)

**What did Joseph bring to his father Jacob while shepherding the flock with his brothers?**

Joseph brought to his father a bad report about his brothers.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 37:2

## Genesis 37:3 (id: 170444)

**How did Israel show that he loved Joseph more than his other sons?**

Israel made Joseph a multicolored tunic.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 37:3

## Genesis 37:4 (id: 170445)

**What did Joseph’s brothers think about Joseph?**

Joseph’s brothers hated him and would not speak to him peaceably.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 37:4

## Genesis 37:7 (id: 170446)

**What did Joseph see in his first dream?**

Joseph saw his sheaf stand upright while his brothers’ sheaves bowed down to his sheaf.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 37:7

## Genesis 37:8 (id: 170447)

**What did Joseph’s brothers think about Joseph after he told them about his first dream?**

Joseph’s brothers hated him even more.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 37:8

## Genesis 37:9 (id: 170448)

**What did Joseph see in his second dream?**

Joseph saw the sun, moon, and eleven stars bow down to him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 37:9

## Genesis 37:10 (id: 170449)

**In Joseph’s second dream, what did the sun, moon, and stars represent?**

The sun, moon, and stars represented Joseph’s father, mother, and brothers.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 37:10

## Genesis 37:14 (id: 170450)

**What did Jacob send Joseph out of the valley of Hebron to do?**

Jacob sent Joseph out of the valley of Hebron to see if it was well with his brothers and to bring Jacob word.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 37:14

## Genesis 37:20 (id: 170451)

**What did Joseph’s brothers plan to do when they saw Joseph coming?**

Joseph’s brothers planned to kill Joseph and cast him into one of the pits.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 37:20

## Genesis 37:22 (id: 170452)

**What suggestion did Reuben make to his brothers, and why?**

Reuben suggested that the brothers throw Joseph into a pit without harming him, so that he could rescue Joseph later.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 37:22

## Genesis 37:28 (id: 170453)

**Who did Joseph’s brothers sell Joseph to and for how much?**

Joseph’s brothers sold Joseph to the Ishmaelites for twenty pieces of silver.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 37:28

## Genesis 37:28 (#2) (id: 170454)

**Where was Joseph taken?**

Joseph was taken to Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 37:28

## Genesis 37:31–32 (id: 170455)

**How did Joseph’s brothers make it appear that Joseph was dead?**

Joseph’s brothers killed a goat and dipped Joseph’s coat in the blood, then gave the coat to their father.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 37:31–GEN 37:32

## Genesis 37:34 (id: 170456)

**What did Jacob do after he concluded Joseph was dead?**

Jacob tore his garments, wore sackcloth, and mourned for his son many days.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 37:34

## Genesis 37:36 (id: 170457)

**To whom was Joseph sold in Egypt?**

Joseph was sold to Potiphar, an official of Pharaoh, in Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 37:36

## Genesis 38:2 (id: 170458)

**From whom did Judah take a wife?**

Judah took a wife who was a daughter of a Canaanite man.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 38:2

## Genesis 38:7 (id: 170459)

**What did Yahweh do with Judah’s first son Er, and why?**

Yahweh killed Er because he was evil.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 38:7

## Genesis 38:9 (id: 170460)

**How did Judah’s second son Onan not fulfill the duty of a brother\-in\-law to raise up a child for Er?**

Onan would spill his semen on the ground when he went in to have relations with Tamar.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 38:9

## Genesis 38:10 (id: 170461)

**What did Yahweh do with Judah’s second son Onan, and why?**

Yahweh killed Onan because what he did was evil.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 38:10

## Genesis 38:11 (id: 170462)

**What promise did Judah then make to Tamar?**

Judah promised Tamar his third son Shelah as a husband when Shelah grew up.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 38:11

## Genesis 38:12 (id: 170463)

**After a long time, why did Judah need to be comforted?**

Judah needed to be comforted because his wife had died.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 38:12

## Genesis 38:14 (id: 170464)

**What did Tamar do when she heard that Judah was going to Timnah?**

Tamar took off her clothing of widowhood, put on a veil and wrapped herself, and sat by the road to Timnah.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 38:14

## Genesis 38:14 (#2) (id: 170465)

**Why did Tamar do this?**

Tamar did this because Judah’s third son Shelah had grown up, but she had not been given to him as a wife.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 38:14

## Genesis 38:18 (id: 170466)

**What did Tamar obtain as a pledge for payment before Judah went in to have relations with her?**

Judah gave Tamar his signet, cord, and staff as a pledge of payment.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 38:18

## Genesis 38:21 (id: 170467)

**When Judah tried to retrieve his pledge by paying the prostitute with a young goat, what did he learn?**

Judah learned that there was no temple prostitute in that area.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 38:21

## Genesis 38:24 (id: 170468)

**What did Judah want to do when he learned that Tamar was pregnant?**

Judah wanted to burn Tamar because she had become pregnant as a prostitute.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 38:24

## Genesis 38:25 (id: 170469)

**What did Tamar do when she was brought out to Judah?**

She said that she was pregnant by the man who owned the seal, cord, and staff she had.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 38:25

## Genesis 38:26 (id: 170470)

**How did Judah respond when he saw his seal, cord, and staff?**

Judah said that Tamar was more right than he was, because he had not given Tamar to Shelah as a wife.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 38:26

## Genesis 38:27 (id: 170471)

**How many children did Tamar bear?**

Tamar had twin sons.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 38:27

## Genesis 38:28 (id: 170472)

**What did the midwife do when one of Tamar’s twins put his hand out from Tamar’s womb?**

When one of Tamar’s twins put his hand out from Tamar’s womb The midwife took a scarlet thread and tied it on his hand and said, “This one came out first.”

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 38:28

## Genesis 38:29–30 (id: 170473)

**What were the names of the two brothers that Tamar birthed?**

The names of the two brothers that Tamar birthed were Perez and Zerah.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 38:29–GEN 38:30

## Genesis 39:1 (id: 170474)

**Who bought Joseph in Egypt?**

Potiphar, an official of Pharaoh, bought Joseph in Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 39:1

## Genesis 39:3–4 (id: 170475)

**Why was Joseph successful in Egypt?**

Joseph was successful because Yahweh was with him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 39:3–GEN 39:4

## Genesis 39:6 (id: 170476)

**What did Potiphar put under Joseph’s care?**

Potiphar put everything he had under Joseph’s care.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 39:6

## Genesis 39:7 (id: 170477)

**What did Potiphar’s wife ask Joseph to do?**

Potiphar’s wife asked Joseph to lie with her.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 39:7

## Genesis 39:8–9 (id: 170478)

**How did Joseph respond to Potiphar’s wife’s request?**

Joseph refused and said he could not commit this great evil and sin against God.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 39:8–GEN 39:9

## Genesis 39:12 (id: 170479)

**What did Joseph do when Potiphar’s wife caught him by his clothes?**

Joseph left his clothing in her hand and fled outside.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 39:12

## Genesis 39:14–15 (id: 170480)

**What accusation did Potiphar’s wife make against Joseph?**

She accused him of trying to lie with her against her will.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 39:14–GEN 39:15

## Genesis 39:19–20 (id: 170481)

**What did Potiphar do when he heard the accusation against Joseph?**

Potiphar became very angry and put Joseph in prison.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 39:19–GEN 39:20

## Genesis 39:21 (id: 170482)

**At this time, what did Yahweh show to Joseph?**

Yahweh showed kindness to Joseph at this time.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 39:21

## Genesis 39:22 (id: 170483)

**What did the prison warden put under Joseph’s care?**

The prison warden put all the prisoners under Joseph’s care.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 39:22

## Genesis 39:23 (id: 170484)

**What was the result of everything Joseph did, and why?**

Yahweh made everything Joseph did successful.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 39:23

## Genesis 40:1 (id: 170485)

**Why did the king of Egypt put his cupbearer and his baker in prison?**

He put them in prison because they sinned against him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 40:1

## Genesis 40:5 (id: 170486)

**What happened to the cupbearer and the baker on the same night?**

The cupbearer and the baker each dreamed a dream the same night.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 40:5

## Genesis 40:7–8 (id: 170487)

**Why were the cupbearer and baker both sad the next morning?**

They were both sad because no one could interpret their dreams.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 40:7–GEN 40:8

## Genesis 40:8 (id: 170488)

**Who did Joseph say could give the interpretation of the dreams?**

Joseph said that God could give the interpretation of the dreams.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 40:8

## Genesis 40:12–13 (id: 170489)

**What did Joseph say was the interpretation of the cupbearer’s dream?**

Joseph said that the dream meant that within three days Pharaoh would restore the cupbearer to his position.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 40:12–GEN 40:13

## Genesis 40:14 (id: 170490)

**What request did Joseph make to the cupbearer after giving the interpretation of his dream?**

Joseph requested that the cupbearer remember him, mention him to Pharaoh, and bring him out of the prison.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 40:14

## Genesis 40:18–19 (id: 170491)

**What did Joseph say was the interpretation of the baker’s dream?**

Joseph said that the dream meant that within three days Pharoah would hang the baker on a tree.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 40:18–GEN 40:19

## Genesis 40:20 (id: 170492)

**What special event occurred three days later?**

Pharaoh’s birthday was three days later.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 40:20

## Genesis 40:21–22 (id: 170493)

**What did Pharaoh do with the cupbearer and the baker on that day?**

Pharaoh restored the cupbearer to his position, but he hanged the baker, just as Joseph had interpreted to them.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 40:21–GEN 40:22

## Genesis 40:23 (id: 170494)

**Did the cupbearer remember Joseph’s request to him?**

No, the cupbearer did not remember to help Joseph but forgot about him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 40:23

## Genesis 41:4 (id: 170495)

**In Pharaoh’s first dream, what did the seven thin cows do to the seven fat cows?**

The seven thin cows ate the seven fat cows.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:4

## Genesis 41:7 (id: 170496)

**In Pharaoh’s second dream, what did the seven thin heads of grain do to the seven full heads?**

The seven thin heads swallowed up the seven full heads.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:7

## Genesis 41:8 (id: 170497)

**How did the magicians and wise men of Pharaoh interpret his dreams?**

The magicians and wise men of Pharaoh could not interpret Pharaoh’s dreams.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:8

## Genesis 41:12–13 (id: 170498)

**What did the chief cupbearer tell Pharaoh about Joseph?**

The chief cupbearer told Pharaoh that a young Hebrew man had correctly interpreted his dream and the dream of the baker when they were in custody.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:12–GEN 41:13

## Genesis 41:16 (id: 170499)

**Who did Joseph say would interpret Pharaoh’s dream?**

Joseph said that God would interpret Pharaoh’s dream.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:16

## Genesis 41:25 (id: 170500)

**What did Joseph say God was revealing to Pharaoh?**

Joseph said that God was revealing to Pharaoh what God was about to do.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:25

## Genesis 41:26 (id: 170501)

**What did the seven good cows and the seven good heads in the dreams represent?**

The seven good cows and heads represented seven years of abundance.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:26

## Genesis 41:27 (id: 170502)

**What did the seven thin cows and the seven thin heads in the dreams represent?**

The seven thin cows and heads represented seven years of famine.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:27

## Genesis 41:32 (id: 170503)

**According to Joseph, why was Pharaoh given two dreams?**

Pharaoh was given two dreams because the matter had been established by God, and God would soon do it.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:32

## Genesis 41:34 (id: 170504)

**What fraction of the crops of Egypt did Joseph advise Pharaoh to take in the seven abundant years**

Joseph advised Pharaoh to appoint a man to take a fifth of the crops in the seven abundant years.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:34

## Genesis 41:38 (id: 170505)

**What did Pharaoh say was in Joseph?**

Pharaoh said that the Spirit of God was in Joseph.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:38

## Genesis 41:40–41 (id: 170506)

**What position of authority did Pharaoh give Joseph?**

Pharaoh gave Joseph authority over Pharaoh’s house and over all the land of Egypt, second only to Pharaoh.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:40–GEN 41:41

## Genesis 41:48–49 (id: 170507)

**How much grain did Joseph store up in the seven years of abundance?**

Joseph stored up grain like the sand of the sea, an amount too much to measure.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:48–GEN 41:49

## Genesis 41:50–52 (id: 170508)

**What were the names of Joseph’s two sons born before the famine?**

Joseph’s sons were named Manasseh and Ephraim.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:50–GEN 41:52

## Genesis 41:54 (id: 170509)

**How widespread was the seven years of famine?**

The seven years of famine was in all lands.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:54

## Genesis 41:55–56 (id: 170510)

**What did Joseph do when the people of Egypt cried to Pharaoh for food?**

Joseph opened all the storehouses and sold food to the Egyptians.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:55–GEN 41:56

## Genesis 41:57 (id: 170511)

**Who came to Egypt to buy grain from Joseph?**

All the earth came to Egypt to buy grain from Joseph.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:57

## Genesis 42:1–4 (id: 170512)

**Who did Jacob send down to Egypt to buy grain?**

Jacob sent Joseph’s ten brothers, without Benjamin, down to Egypt to buy grain.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:1–GEN 42:4

## Genesis 42:6 (id: 170513)

**What did Joseph’s brothers do when they came to Joseph to buy grain?**

Joseph’s brothers bowed down to him with their faces to the ground.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:6

## Genesis 42:7 (id: 170514)

**What did Joseph do when he recognized his brothers?**

Joseph disguised himself and spoke harshly with his brothers.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:7

## Genesis 42:9 (id: 170515)

**What accusation did Joseph make against his brothers?**

Joseph accused his brothers of being spies.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:9

## Genesis 42:13 (id: 170516)

**Where did Joseph’s brothers say their youngest brother was?**

Joseph’s brothers said their youngest brother was with his father in the land of Canaan.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:13

## Genesis 42:13 (#2) (id: 170517)

**Where did Joseph’s brothers say their other missing brother was?**

Joseph’s brothers said their other missing brother was no longer alive.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:13

## Genesis 42:15 (id: 170518)

**What test did Joseph give his brothers to demonstrate they were not spies?**

Joseph said the brothers would not leave Egypt unless their youngest brother came to Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:15

## Genesis 42:17 (id: 170519)

**Where did Joseph put the brothers and for how long?**

Joseph put the brothers in custody for three days.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:17

## Genesis 42:18–20 (id: 170520)

**What did Joseph tell the brothers to do in order to live?**

Joseph told them to let one of the brothers be confined in prison, while the others carried grain to Canaan and brought back the youngest brother.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:18–GEN 42:20

## Genesis 42:21–22 (id: 170521)

**Why did Joseph’s brothers believe this trouble had come upon them?**

They believed that the blood of Joseph was being required of them for what they had done to Joseph.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:21–GEN 42:22

## Genesis 42:24 (id: 170522)

**What did Joseph do when he heard his brothers talk about what they had done to him?**

When Joseph heard his brothers talking about what they had done to him, Joseph turned from them and wept.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:24

## Genesis 42:25 (id: 170523)

**What did Joseph have put back in each brother’s sack?**

Joseph had each brother’s money put back in his sack.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:25

## Genesis 42:28 (id: 170524)

**How did the brothers react when they learned that one brother’s sack had his money in it?**

Their hearts sank and they spoke to one another with trembling voices.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:28

## Genesis 42:28 (#2) (id: 170525)

**Who did the brothers blame for their current problems?**

The brothers blamed God, asking why God had done this to them.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:28

## Genesis 42:35 (id: 170526)

**What did the brothers and Jacob learn when they emptied all the sacks?**

They learned that every man’s money was in his sack.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:35

## Genesis 42:36 (id: 170527)

**What was Jacob afraid would happen because of their situation?**

Jacob was afraid that Simeon and Benjamin would be taken away from him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:36

## Genesis 42:37 (id: 170528)

**What oath did Reuben make to Jacob?**

Reuben swore to bring Benjamin back to Jacob from Egypt; otherwise, Reuben’s two sons could be killed.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:37

## Genesis 42:38 (id: 170529)

**Did Jacob allow Reuben to take Benjamin to Egypt?**

No, Jacob did not allow Reuben to take Benjamin to Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:38

## Genesis 42:38 (#2) (id: 170530)

**What did Jacob say would happen to him if Benjamin died?**

Jacob said he would go down with sorrow to Sheol if Benjamin died.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:38

## Genesis 43:1–2 (id: 170531)

**Why did Israel tell his sons to go again and buy some food in Egypt?**

The famine was severe, and they had eaten the grain they had brought from Egypt on the first journey.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 43:1–GEN 43:2

## Genesis 43:3–5 (id: 170532)

**What did Judah say they must have in order to go down to Egypt again?**

Judah said they must have their brother Benjamin in order to go down to Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 43:3–GEN 43:5

## Genesis 43:9 (id: 170533)

**What oath did Judah make to Israel his father?**

Judah said that if he did not bring Benjamin back, he would bear the blame forever.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 43:9

## Genesis 43:11–12 (id: 170534)

**What did Israel tell the brothers to take with them to Egypt?**

Israel told the brothers to take some of the best products of the land, and to take double the money that they owed.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 43:11–GEN 43:12

## Genesis 43:14 (id: 170535)

**For what did Israel ask God regarding the journey?**

Israel asked God to give the brothers mercy in Egypt, so that all the brothers would be released.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 43:14

## Genesis 43:18 (id: 170536)

**How did the brothers respond when they were brought to Joseph’s house, and why?**

The brothers were afraid they would be arrested and taken as slaves because of the money left in their bags on the first journey.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 43:18

## Genesis 43:21–22 (id: 170537)

**What did the brothers tell the steward of Joseph’s house?**

The brothers told the steward they had brought back the money left in their sacks, and other money to buy food.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 43:21–GEN 43:22

## Genesis 43:23 (id: 170538)

**From where did the steward say the money left in their sacks had come?**

The steward said the money left in their sacks had come from their God.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 43:23

## Genesis 43:26 (id: 170539)

**What did the brothers do when Joseph came home?**

The brothers brought the gifts into the house, and bowed down before Joseph to the ground.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 43:26

## Genesis 43:27 (id: 170540)

**About whom did Joseph ask the brothers?**

Joseph asked the brothers about the welfare of their father.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 43:27

## Genesis 43:30 (id: 170541)

**Why did Joseph hurry to go out of the room, and what did he do after he left?**

Joseph hurried out of the room because he was deeply moved about Benjamin, and he went to his room and wept.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 43:30

## Genesis 43:32 (id: 170542)

**Why did the Egyptians and the Hebrews eat separately?**

It was detestable to the Egyptians to eat with the Hebrews.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 43:32

## Genesis 43:33 (id: 170543)

**How were the brothers arranged at the table?**

The brothers were arranged at the table according to their birthright and age.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 43:33

## Genesis 43:34 (id: 170544)

**What was unusual about the portions of food the brothers received?**

Benjamin’s portion was five times as much as any of his brothers.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 43:34

## Genesis 44:1–2 (id: 170545)

**What did Joseph tell his steward to do with the brothers’ sacks before they left?**

Joseph told his steward to fill the brothers’ sacks with food, to put their money in the sacks, and to put his silver cup in the sack of the youngest one.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:1–GEN 44:2

## Genesis 44:4–5 (id: 170546)

**Basically, what did Joseph tell the steward to say to the brothers when he overtook them outside the city?**

Joseph told the steward to ask them why they had returned evil for good and to accuse them of stealing Joseph’s cup.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:4–GEN 44:5

## Genesis 44:9 (id: 170547)

**What did the brothers swear they would do if any one of them had stolen Joseph’s cup?**

The brothers said the one found with the cup would die, and the others would become slaves.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:9

## Genesis 44:10 (id: 170548)

**What punishment did the steward say he would require if the cup was stolen?**

The steward said that the one with whom the cup was found would be his slave, and the others would be innocent.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:10

## Genesis 44:12–13 (id: 170549)

**What did the steward find, and how did the brothers react?**

The steward found the cup in Benjamin’s sack, and the brothers tore their clothes.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:12–GEN 44:13

## Genesis 44:14 (id: 170550)

**What did the brothers do when they came back to Joseph in his house?**

The brothers bowed before Joseph to the ground.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:14

## Genesis 44:16 (id: 170551)

**Who did Judah say had found out the iniquity of the brothers?**

Judah said that God had found out their iniquity.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:16

## Genesis 44:16 (#2) (id: 170552)

**What did Judah say all the brothers would now become?**

Judah said all the brothers would now become Joseph’s slaves.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:16

## Genesis 44:17 (id: 170553)

**What punishment did Joseph say he would require of the brothers?**

Joseph said that the man in whose hand the cup was found would be his slave, and the rest could go in peace.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:17

## Genesis 44:20 (id: 170554)

**What reasons did Judah give for why his father loved the youngest brother?**

Judah said that the youngest brother was the child of his father’s old age, and the only child left of his mother.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:20

## Genesis 44:22 (id: 170555)

**What did the brothers worry would happen to their father if the youngest left him?**

The brothers worried their father would die if the youngest left him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:22

## Genesis 44:23 (id: 170556)

**Why did Judah say the brothers were forced to bring Benjamin with them to Egypt?**

Judah said they were forced to bring Benjamin because Joseph had said that unless the youngest brother comes, they would not see Joseph’s face.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:23

## Genesis 44:26 (id: 170557)

**Why did Judah tell his father the brothers were forced to bring Benjamin with them to Egypt?**

Judah told his father said they were forced to bring Benjamin because Joseph had said that unless the youngest brother came, they would not see Joseph’s face.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:26

## Genesis 44:28 (id: 170558)

**What did Israel think had happened to Joseph?**

Israel thought that surely Joseph had been torn in pieces.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:28

## Genesis 44:29 (id: 170559)

**What did Israel say would happen to him if Benjamin were taken from him?**

Israel said that the brothers would bring down his gray hair with sorrow to Sheol.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:29

## Genesis 44:31 (id: 170560)

**What did Judah say would happen to his father if they returned without Benjamin?**

Judah said that his father would die.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:31

## Genesis 44:32 (id: 170561)

**What guarantee for Benjamin did Judah say he had become?**

Judah said that if he did not return Benjamin to his father, he would bear the guilt forever.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:32

## Genesis 44:33 (id: 170562)

**What did Judah ask Joseph to do so that Benjamin could return to his father?**

Judah asked Joseph to make him Joseph’s slave, so that Benjamin could return to his father.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 44:33

## Genesis 45:1–2 (id: 170563)

**What did Joseph do as he made himself known to his brothers, which the Egyptians heard?**

Joseph wept loudly as he made himself known to his brothers.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 45:1–GEN 45:2

## Genesis 45:3 (id: 170564)

**How did the brothers react when Joseph revealed himself to them?**

The brothers could not answer Joseph, for they were terrified.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 45:3

## Genesis 45:7 (id: 170565)

**According to Joseph, why did God sent Joseph to Egypt?**

God sent Joseph to Egypt to preserve life and to preserve his family as a remnant on the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 45:7

## Genesis 45:8 (id: 170566)

**What had God made Joseph in the land of Egypt?**

God had made Joseph father to Pharaoh, lord of all Pharaoh’s house, and ruler over all the land of Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 45:8

## Genesis 45:9–11 (id: 170567)

**How did Joseph plan to take care of his family?**

Joseph told his family to come and live in the land of Goshen, where he would provide for them.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 45:9–GEN 45:11

## Genesis 45:13 (id: 170568)

**What did Joseph tell his brothers to hurry and do?**

Joseph told his brothers to hurry and bring his father to Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 45:13

## Genesis 45:16–18 (id: 170569)

**How did Pharaoh react when he heard that Joseph’s brothers had come to Egypt?**

Pharaoh was very pleased, and he told Joseph to tell his brothers to bring their father and their households to live in the good of the land of Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 45:16–GEN 45:18

## Genesis 45:21–23 (id: 170570)

**Who received extra gifts and provisions for the trip?**

Benjamin received three hundred pieces of silver and five changes of clothing, and Israel received twenty loaded donkeys.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 45:21–GEN 45:23

## Genesis 45:26 (id: 170571)

**How did Israel react when he heard that Joseph was alive and ruler over all the land of Egypt?**

Israel’s heart was astonished, for he did not believe the brothers when they told him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 45:26

## Genesis 45:28 (id: 170572)

**What did Israel say he wanted to do before he died?**

Israel said he wanted to see Joseph before he died.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 45:28

## Genesis 46:1 (id: 170573)

**What did Israel do in Beersheba?**

Israel offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 46:1

## Genesis 46:3–4 (id: 170574)

**What promises did God make to Israel in Beersheba?**

God promised to make Israel a great nation, to go with Israel to Egypt, to bring Israel up again from Egypt, and to have Joseph close his eyes.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 46:3–GEN 46:4

## Genesis 46:5–7 (id: 170575)

**Who went to Egypt with Israel?**

All his descendants went with Israel to Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 46:5–GEN 46:7

## Genesis 46:12 (id: 170576)

**Which two sons of Judah died in the land of Canaan?**

Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 46:12

## Genesis 46:27 (id: 170577)

**How many persons of the house of Jacob went to Egypt?**

Seventy persons of the house of Jacob went to Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 46:27

## Genesis 46:29 (id: 170578)

**What did Joseph do to meet his father?**

Joseph went up with his chariot and met his father in Goshen.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 46:29

## Genesis 46:29 (#2) (id: 170579)

**What did Joseph do when he saw his father?**

Joseph hugged his father’s neck and wept a long time.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 46:29

## Genesis 46:34 (id: 170580)

**What did Joseph tell the brothers to say to Pharaoh concerning their occupation?**

The brothers were to tell Pharaoh that they were keepers of sheep from their youth.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 46:34

## Genesis 47:3 (id: 170581)

**What did the five brothers of Joseph tell Pharaoh their occupation was?**

The five brothers told Pharaoh their occupation was shepherding.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 47:3

## Genesis 47:4 (id: 170582)

**What kind of residents did the brothers say they were in the land of Egypt?**

The brothers said they were temporary residents in the land of Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 47:4

## Genesis 47:6 (id: 170583)

**What did Pharaoh tell Joseph to do with Joseph’s family?**

Pharaoh told Joseph to settle Joseph’s family in the best region, the land of Goshen, and to make the best herdsmen responsible for his herds too..

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 47:6

## Genesis 47:7 (id: 170584)

**What did Jacob do for Pharaoh when he met him?**

Jacob blessed Pharaoh when he met him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 47:7

## Genesis 47:9 (id: 170585)

**How long had Jacob lived when he met Pharaoh?**

Jacob had lived 130 years.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 47:9

## Genesis 47:9 (#2) (id: 170586)

**How long did Jacob say his life was compared to his ancestors?**

Jacob said his life was not as long as his ancestors’ lives.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 47:9

## Genesis 47:10 (id: 170587)

**What did Jacob do for Pharaoh when he went out from his presence?**

Jacob blessed Pharaoh when he went out from his presence.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 47:10

## Genesis 47:14 (id: 170588)

**What was Joseph able to do by selling grain?**

Joseph was able to gather up all the money in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 47:14

## Genesis 47:16–17 (id: 170589)

**What was Joseph then able to do by exchanging food with the Egyptians?**

Joseph was able to exchange food for all the livestock of the Egyptians.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 47:16–GEN 47:17

## Genesis 47:18–19 (id: 170590)

**After the money and livestock were all given to Pharaoh in exchange for food, what did the people of Egypt offer Pharaoh in exchange for more food?**

The people of Egypt offered their land and themselves as servants of Pharaoh in exchange for more food.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 47:18–GEN 47:19

## Genesis 47:24 (id: 170591)

**What part of the whole harvest did Joseph require to be given to Pharaoh?**

Joseph required one fifth of the harvest to be given to Pharaoh.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 47:24

## Genesis 47:27 (id: 170592)

**In what ways did the people of Israel prosper in the land of Egypt?**

The people of Israel gained possessions in the land of Egypt, and they were fruitful and multiplied rapidly.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 47:27

## Genesis 47:28 (id: 170593)

**At what age did Jacob die?**

Jacob died at the age of 147\.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 47:28

## Genesis 47:30 (id: 170594)

**What did Israel ask Joseph to swear he would do?**

Israel asked Joseph to swear he would bury Israel in his forefathers’ burial place.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 47:30

## Genesis 48:1 (id: 170595)

**What message did Joseph hear about his father, and what did he then do?**

Joseph heard that his father was sick, so he took with him his two sons.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 48:1

## Genesis 48:4 (id: 170596)

**What promises from God did Jacob recall to Joseph?**

Jacob recalled that God promised him that he would be fruitful and multiply, he would be made an assembly of nations, and the land of Canaan would be an everlasting possession of his descendants.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 48:4

## Genesis 48:5–6 (id: 170597)

**How did Jacob say he would consider the two sons of Joseph in the inheritance?**

Jacob said he would consider the two sons of Joseph as his own.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 48:5–GEN 48:6

## Genesis 48:8–10 (id: 170598)

**Why did Israel not recognize Joseph’s two sons?**

Israel did not recognize Joseph’s two sons because his eyes were failing due to his age.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 48:8–GEN 48:10

## Genesis 48:14 (id: 170599)

**Who was the first\-born of Joseph’s sons?**

Manasseh was the first\-born of Joseph’s sons.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 48:14

## Genesis 48:14 (#2) (id: 170600)

**Upon whom did Israel put his right hand, and upon whom his left hand?**

Israel put his right hand on Ephraim, and his left hand on Manasseh.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 48:14

## Genesis 48:17–18 (id: 170601)

**Why did Joseph try to exchange the position of Israel’s hands?**

Joseph expected Israel’s right hand to be on Manasseh because he was the first\-born.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 48:17–GEN 48:18

## Genesis 48:19 (id: 170602)

**Why did Israel refuse to exchange the position of his hands on the two sons of Joseph?**

Israel refused because the younger brother would be greater than the first\-born.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 48:19

## Genesis 48:20 (id: 170603)

**What blessing did Israel say the people of Israel would pronounce?**

Israel said the people of Israel would pronounce the blessing, “May God make you like Ephraim and like Manasseh”.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 48:20

## Genesis 48:21 (id: 170604)

**What did Israel say would happen to Joseph?**

Israel said that Joseph would be brought back to the land of his fathers.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 48:21

## Genesis 49:1 (id: 170605)

**For what reason did Jacob gather his sons together?**

Jacob gathered his sons together to tell them what would happen to them and their descendants in the future.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 49:1

## Genesis 49:3 (id: 170606)

**What positive attributes did Reuben have?**

Reuben was outstanding in rank and power.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 49:3

## Genesis 49:4 (id: 170607)

**Why would Reuben not have pre\-eminence even though he was the firstborn?**

Reuben would not have pre\-eminence because he had defiled his father’s bed.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 49:4

## Genesis 49:7 (id: 170608)

**What did Jacob curse about Simeon and Levi?**

Jacob cursed the fury and cruel anger of Simeon and Levi.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 49:7

## Genesis 49:8 (id: 170609)

**What did Jacob say his other sons would do before Judah?**

Jacob said his others sons would bow down before Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 49:8

## Genesis 49:10 (id: 170610)

**What promises about the future were made to Judah?**

Judah was promised that the sceptre would not depart from him until Shiloh came, and that the nations would obey him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 49:10

## Genesis 49:13 (id: 170611)

**Where did Jacob say the descendants of Zebulun would live?**

Jacob said the descendants of Zebulun would live by the shore of the sea.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 49:13

## Genesis 49:17 (id: 170612)

**What animal did Jacob say Dan would be like?**

Jacob said Dan would be like a poisonous snake.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 49:17

## Genesis 49:20 (id: 170613)

**For what did Jacob say Asher would be known?**

Jacob said Asher would be known for providing royal delicacies.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 49:20

## Genesis 49:22 (id: 170614)

**What kind of plant did Jacob say Joseph would be like?**

Jacob said Joseph would be like a fruitful bough whose branches climb over a wall.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 49:22

## Genesis 49:24 (id: 170615)

**Who did Jacob say would keep Joseph’s bow steady and his hands skillful?**

Jacob said the hands of the mighty one of Jacob, the Rock of Israel, would keep Joseph’s bow steady and his hands skillful.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 49:24

## Genesis 49:31 (id: 170616)

**Who was already buried in the place where Jacob wished to be buried?**

Abraham, Sarah, Isaac, Rebekah, and Leah were already buried there.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 49:31

## Genesis 49:33 (id: 170617)

**What did Jacob do after he gave his blessings and instructions to his sons?**

Jacob breathed his last and went to his people.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 49:33

## Genesis 50:2–3 (id: 170618)

**What did Joseph do with Israel’s body after Israel died?**

Joseph had Israel’s body embalmed.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 50:2–GEN 50:3

## Genesis 50:4–6 (id: 170619)

**What request did Joseph make to Pharaoh about the burial of his father, and why did he make this request?**

Joseph requested to be able to go to the land of Canaan to bury his father, as his father had made him swear.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 50:4–GEN 50:6

## Genesis 50:7–9 (id: 170620)

**Who went with Joseph to bury Israel?**

All the officials of Pharaoh, the courtiers of his household, the senior officials of Egypt, Joseph’s household, Joseph’s brothers, his father’s household, and chariots and horsemen all went with Joseph.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 50:7–GEN 50:9

## Genesis 50:11 (id: 170621)

**What did the Canaanites say when they saw Joseph and those with him?**

The Canaanites said that this was a very sad occasion for the Egyptians.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 50:11

## Genesis 50:14 (id: 170622)

**Where did Joseph and his brothers go after burying their father?**

Joseph and his brothers returned into Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 50:14

## Genesis 50:15 (id: 170623)

**About what were Joseph’s brothers worried after Israel died?**

Joseph’s brothers were worried that Joseph would repay them for all the evil the brothers had done to Joseph.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 50:15

## Genesis 50:17 (id: 170624)

**What did the brothers ask Joseph to do regarding the wrongs they had committed against Joseph?**

The brothers asked Joseph to forgive them for the wrongs they had committed against Joseph.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 50:17

## Genesis 50:18 (id: 170625)

**What did Joseph’s brothers do when they came to Joseph?**

When they came to Joseph, Joseph’s brothers fell down before him.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 50:18

## Genesis 50:20 (id: 170626)

**What good did Joseph say God had worked through the evil deeds of his brothers?**

Joseph said God had worked the good of preserving the lives of many people.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 50:20

## Genesis 50:22 (id: 170627)

**How long did Joseph live?**

Joseph lived one 110 years.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 50:22

## Genesis 50:24 (id: 170628)

**What did Joseph say was about to happen to him?**

Joseph said that he was about to die.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 50:24

## Genesis 50:24 (#2) (id: 170629)

**What promise did Joseph say God would fulfill for Israel’s descendants?**

Joseph said God would come to the people and lead them up to the land God promised to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 50:24

## Genesis 50:25 (id: 170630)

**What did Joseph make the people of Israel swear they would do?**

Joseph made them swear they would carry Joseph’s bones from Egypt when they left Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 50:25

## Genesis 50:26 (id: 170631)

**What happened to Joseph’s body after he died?**

Joseph’s body was embalmed and put in a coffin in Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 50:26

