# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Deuteronomy 1:1 (id: 167996)

**Where was Moses when he spoke to Israel?**

Moses was beyond the Jordan in the wilderness, in the plain of the Jordan river valley.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:1

## Deuteronomy 1:3 (id: 167997)

**When did Moses speak to the people of Israel, telling them all that Yahweh commanded him?**

It was the fortieth year, the first day of the eleventh month, on the first day of the month.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:3

## Deuteronomy 1:8 (id: 167998)

**To whom had Yahweh sworn to give the land?**

Yahweh had sworn to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob to give the land to them and to their descendants after them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:8

## Deuteronomy 1:9–10 (id: 167999)

**Why did Moses feel he could not carry the people alone?**

God had multiplied them, made them to number as the stars of heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:9–DEU 1:10

## Deuteronomy 1:12–13 (id: 168000)

**Who would help Moses carry the loads, burdens, and disputes of the people?**

They would take wise understanding men of good repute, tribe by tribe, and make these men heads over them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:12–DEU 1:13

## Deuteronomy 1:16 (id: 168001)

**What did Moses command the judges to do?**

He commanded them to hear the disputes between brothers, and the foreigner who is with him.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:16

## Deuteronomy 1:19 (id: 168002)

**What did Israel travel through as they journeyed from Horeb to the hill country?**

They traveled through all the great and terrible wilderness.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:19

## Deuteronomy 1:22 (id: 168003)

**Why did the people ask Moses to send men ahead of them?**

They asked Moses to send men ahead to search out the land and bring back word about how they should attack and about the cities.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:22

## Deuteronomy 1:23 (id: 168004)

**Who did Moses choose to scout out the land in the hill country?**

He chose twelve men, one man for every tribe.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:23

## Deuteronomy 1:25 (id: 168005)

**What did the men report back about the land?**

They said, “It is a good land that Yahweh our God is giving to us.”

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:25

## Deuteronomy 1:27 (id: 168006)

**Why did the men say Yahweh brought them out of the land of Egypt?**

They said Yahweh hated them and he brought them out of the land of Egypt to destroy them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:27

## Deuteronomy 1:28 (id: 168007)

**What did their brothers say about the people of the land?**

They said that the people of the land were bigger and taller than the Israelites.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:28

## Deuteronomy 1:29–31 (id: 168008)

**What did Moses say was there reason the people did not need to be afraid?**

He told them not to be afraid, because Yahweh would go before them and would fight for them like he did in Egypt and in the wilderness.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:29–DEU 1:31

## Deuteronomy 1:34–35 (id: 168009)

**What did Yahweh say because he was angry?**

He swore and said, “Surely not one of these men of this evil generation will see the good land except Caleb.”

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:34–DEU 1:35

## Deuteronomy 1:38 (id: 168010)

**What did Yahweh tell Moses to do for Joshua the son of Nun?**

Yahweh told Moses to encourage Joshua for he will lead Israel to inherit the land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:38

## Deuteronomy 1:39 (id: 168011)

**Who did Yahweh say will go into the land and possess it?**

He said their little children will go in and will possess it.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:39

## Deuteronomy 1:43–44 (id: 168012)

**What did the people do when Yahweh told them not to attack the hill country?**

They were arrogant and attacked the hill country, and the Amorites came against the men, and chased them like bees.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 1:43–DEU 1:44

## Deuteronomy 2:1 (id: 168013)

**Where did Moses say they took their journey?**

They took their journey into the wilderness, by way to the Red Sea.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 2:1

## Deuteronomy 2:4–5 (id: 168014)

**What did Yehweh command the people to be careful not to do?**

They were to to be careful not to fight the descendants of Esau, for Yahweh would not give them any of their land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 2:4–DEU 2:5

## Deuteronomy 2:6 (id: 168015)

**How were they to get food and water?**

They were to buy food and water from the people of Seir so they could eat and drink.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 2:6

## Deuteronomy 2:9 (id: 168016)

**What did Yahweh tell them they were not to do in Moab?**

They were not to trouble Moab or fight with them because Yahweh was not giving them that land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 2:9

## Deuteronomy 2:14 (id: 168017)

**How long did it take Israel to go from Kadesh Barnes to the brook Zered?**

It took them 38 years to go to the brook Zered.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 2:14

## Deuteronomy 2:16 (id: 168018)

**What happened to all the men who were fit for fighting?**

All the men who were fit for fighting were dead and gone from among the people.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 2:16

## Deuteronomy 2:19 (id: 168019)

**To whom had Yahweh given the land of the people of Ammon?**

Yahweh had given that land to the descendants of Lot.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 2:19

## Deuteronomy 2:25 (id: 168020)

**What will the people of the land do when they hear news about the Israelites?**

They will tremble and be in anguish because of the Israelites.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 2:25

## Deuteronomy 2:26–27 (id: 168021)

**What words of peace did Moses send to the King of Hashbon?**

Moses asked that he be allowed to pass through the land on the highway, not turning to the right or left.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 2:26–DEU 2:27

## Deuteronomy 2:28–29 (id: 168022)

**What did Moses plan to get food and water for the people?**

He asked the king of Hashbon to sell him food and water for money so they could eat and drink.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 2:28–DEU 2:29

## Deuteronomy 2:32–33 (id: 168023)

**What happened when Sihon came out against Moses?**

Yahweh gave him over to Moses and they defeated him, killing him, his sons and all his people.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 2:32–DEU 2:33

## Deuteronomy 2:34 (id: 168024)

**What happened to all the inhabited cities?**

Moses took all the king’s cities and destroyed them, including women and children; none were left remaining.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 2:34

## Deuteronomy 3:1 (id: 168025)

**What did Og, the king of Bashan do to Israel as they approached his land?**

On the way to Bashan, the king of Bashan and all his people came and attacked Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 3:1

## Deuteronomy 3:3–4 (id: 168026)

**What did Israel do to the king of Bashan and his people?**

They struck the king of Bashan dead until not one of his people remained, and took all his cities.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 3:3–DEU 3:4

## Deuteronomy 3:7 (id: 168027)

**What did Israel do with the cattle and the spoils of the cities?**

They took for themselves all the cattle and the spoil of the cities.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 3:7

## Deuteronomy 3:12–13 (id: 168028)

**To whom did Moses give the land that they had taken possession?**

He gave it to the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half tribe of Manasseh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 3:12–DEU 3:13

## Deuteronomy 3:18 (id: 168029)

**What did Moses command the men of war of the the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half tribe of Manasseh to do?**

He commanded them to pass over armed before their brothers, the people of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 3:18

## Deuteronomy 3:20 (id: 168030)

**When did Yahweh say the the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half tribe of Manasseh could return to their own property?**

Yahweh said they could return after Yahweh gave rest to their brothers, until they also possess their land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 3:20

## Deuteronomy 3:22 (id: 168031)

**What did Moses tell Joshua not to do?**

He told Joshua not to fear the enemy because Yahweh would be the one who would fight for him.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 3:22

## Deuteronomy 3:25 (id: 168032)

**Where did Moses beg to go and see?**

He begged Yahweh to let him go and see the good land beyond Jordan and also Lebanon.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 3:25

## Deuteronomy 3:26 (id: 168033)

**How did Yahweh answer Moses’ request to go and see the land?**

Yahweh was angry with him because of the people and and did not listen to Moses.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 3:26

## Deuteronomy 3:27 (id: 168034)

**What did Yahweh do to allow Mosses to see the land?**

Yahweh told him to go up to the top of Pisgah and lift his eyes all around him for he would not go over the Jordan.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 3:27

## Deuteronomy 3:28–29 (id: 168035)

**What did Yahweh tell Moses to do for Joshua?**

He told Moses to instruct Joshua, encourage and strengthen him, bacause he would go over before the people and will cause them to inherit the land that you see.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 3:28–DEU 3:29

## Deuteronomy 4:1 (id: 168036)

**What must the people of Israel do so that they may live, and go in and possess the land that Yahweh is giving them?**

They must listen and obey the laws that Moses is going to teach them so that they may possess the land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:1

## Deuteronomy 4:2 (id: 168037)

**What must the people not do?**

They must not add to nor diminish the words that Moses commanded them so they may keep the commandments of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:2

## Deuteronomy 4:4 (id: 168038)

**What men did Yahweh destroy?**

Yahweh destroyed the men that followed Baal Peor.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:4

## Deuteronomy 4:6 (id: 168039)

**Why should Israel keep the laws that Moses commanded them?**

They should keep and do them so that they will have wisdom and understanding in the sight of the peoples.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:6

## Deuteronomy 4:9–10 (id: 168040)

**Why should the people pay attention and guard their soul?**

They should pay attention and guard their soul so they do not forget what they have seen, but keep those things in their hearts and make them known to their children and their children’s children.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:9–DEU 4:10

## Deuteronomy 4:11–12 (id: 168041)

**What did the people hear out of the middle of the fire on the mountain?**

They heard Yahweh’s voice out of the middle of the fire, but saw no form.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:11–DEU 4:12

## Deuteronomy 4:13 (id: 168042)

**What was the covenant that Yahweh commanded them to perform and on what was it written?**

Yahweh commanded Moses to teach them the Ten Commandments that were written on two tablets of stone.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:13

## Deuteronomy 4:15–18 (id: 168043)

**What were the people told not to do?**

They were told to not corrupt themselves by making carved figures of any form, including men, women, birds, things that creep, and fish.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:15–DEU 4:18

## Deuteronomy 4:19 (id: 168044)

**Why did Moses tell the people to be careful about the sun, moon and stars?**

He told them that they should be careful to not be drawn away to worship the heavens, sun, moon, or stars.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:19

## Deuteronomy 4:20 (id: 168045)

**Why did Yahweh bring the people out of the iron furnace, Egypt?**

He brought them out of Egypt to be a people of his own inheritance.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:20

## Deuteronomy 4:21–22 (id: 168046)

**What did Yahweh do to Moses because he was angry with Moses?**

He would not let Moses go into the good land over Jordan, but Moses must die outside the land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:21–DEU 4:22

## Deuteronomy 4:24 (id: 168047)

**Why did Yahweh forbidden Israel to make any carved image?**

Yahweh their God is a devouring fire, a jealous God.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:24

## Deuteronomy 4:26 (id: 168048)

**What does Moses say will happen if the people corrupt themselves and do evil in Yahweh’s sight?**

They will perish from the land over the Jordan, and be completely destroyed.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:26

## Deuteronomy 4:27–28 (id: 168049)

**What does Moses say Yahweh will do to the people?**

Yahweh will scatter the people and they will be few in number among the nations where they will serve gods made of wood and stone.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:27–DEU 4:28

## Deuteronomy 4:29 (id: 168050)

**When will the people find Yahweh?**

They will find him when they search after him with all their heart and all their soul.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:29

## Deuteronomy 4:30 (id: 168051)

**What will make the people return to Yahweh their God and listen to his voice?**

When they are in distress, and when all the things have come on them they will return to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:30

## Deuteronomy 4:34 (id: 168052)

**What did God do for the people when they were in Egypt?**

God took him a nation from the midst of another nation, by trials, signs, wonders, war, a mighty hand, a display of great power, and great terrors.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:34

## Deuteronomy 4:35–36 (id: 168053)

**What did Yahweh make happen to the people so they would know he is God?**

He made them hear his voice out of the heavens, and on earth he made them see his great fire.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:35–DEU 4:36

## Deuteronomy 4:37–38 (id: 168054)

**What did Yahweh do for Israel because he loved their fathers?**

He chose their descendants, brought them out of Egypt with his presence and power. He gave them their land after driving out the greater nations.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:37–DEU 4:38

## Deuteronomy 4:41–42 (id: 168055)

**Where could a person flee if he killed another person accidently?**

He could flee to one of the three cities that Moses had selected on the east side of the Jordan river.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:41–DEU 4:42

## Deuteronomy 4:44–45 (id: 168056)

**What did Moses place before the people of Israel?**

He placed the law; covenant decrees, laws, and other decrees that he spoke to them when they came out of Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:44–DEU 4:45

## Deuteronomy 4:48–49 (id: 168057)

**How far did the land of the two kings of the Amorites extend?**

This territory went from Aroer, on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, to Mount Sion (or Mount Hermon), and included all of the plain of the Jordan River valley, eastward beyond the Jordan, to the Sea of the Arabah, to the slopes of Mount Pisgah.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 4:48–DEU 4:49

## Deuteronomy 5:2–3 (id: 168058)

**With whom did Yahweh make a covenant at Horeb?**

Yahweh made a covenant with Israel at Horeb, not with their ancestors, but with the ones alive.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 5:2–DEU 5:3

## Deuteronomy 5:4–5 (id: 168059)

**Why did Moses stand between Yahweh and the people when Yahweh revealed his word to them?**

Because they were afraid of the fire from which God was speaking.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 5:4–DEU 5:5

## Deuteronomy 5:6 (id: 168060)

**Who does Yahweh tell Israel he is?**

He said, “I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery.”

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 5:6

## Deuteronomy 5:8 (id: 168061)

**What does God tell Israel not make, bow down to, or serve?**

They should not make carved figures or any likeness that is in heaven, earth or in the water.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 5:8

## Deuteronomy 5:9 (id: 168062)

**How will Yahweh punish the ancestors’ wickedness they bow down to or serve idols?**

Yahweh will punish the ancestors’ wickedness by bringing punishment on their children’s children.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 5:9

## Deuteronomy 5:10 (id: 168063)

**What will Yahweh do for those who love him and keep his commandments?**

He will show covenant faithfulness to them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 5:10

## Deuteronomy 5:11 (id: 168064)

**Who will Yahweh not hold guiltless?**

He will not hold guiltless those who take his name in vain.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 5:11

## Deuteronomy 5:12–14 (id: 168065)

**What does Yahweh say about the seventh day?**

The seventh day is a Sabbath to Yahweh their God, so they must keep it holy and not do any work.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 5:12–DEU 5:14

## Deuteronomy 5:15 (id: 168066)

**Why does Yahweh command them to keep the Sabbath day?**

He wants them to remember that they were a servant in the land of Egypt and that God brought them out by his mighty hand his display of power.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 5:15

## Deuteronomy 5:16 (id: 168067)

**What did Yahweh say would happen to the people if they honor their father and mother?**

They will live a long time in the land that God gave them and it may go well with them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 5:16

## Deuteronomy 5:17–20 (id: 168068)

**What were they commanded not to do?**

They should not murder, commit adultery, steal, or give false witness against their neighbor.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 5:17–DEU 5:20

## Deuteronomy 5:22 (id: 168069)

**On what did Yahweh write down his words?**

He wrote them down on two tablets of stone and gave them to Moses.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 5:22

## Deuteronomy 5:25 (id: 168070)

**What did the people say would happen to them if they heard the voice of Yahweh any longer?**

The people would be consumed by the great fire and would die.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 5:25

## Deuteronomy 5:27 (id: 168071)

**What did the people say they would do when Moses repeated to them the words of Yahweh?**

They said they will listen and obey Yahweh’s word.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 5:27

## Deuteronomy 5:28 (id: 168072)

**How did Yahweh say about the response of the people?**

He said he heard the words of the people and they were good.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 5:28

## Deuteronomy 5:33 (id: 168073)

**What did Moses say would happen to the people if they kept all Yahweh’s statutes and commandments that Moses was commanding them?**

If they keep the commandments, they will live, and it will go well with them, so they may prolong their days in the land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 5:33

## Deuteronomy 6:2 (id: 168074)

**What will happen if the Israelites and their children keep all Yahweh’s statutes and commandments all the days of your lives?**

If they keep his statutes and commandments, their days will be prolonged.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 6:2

## Deuteronomy 6:3 (id: 168075)

**How did Moses describe the land into which the people were going?**

He said that it was a land flowing with milk and honey.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 6:3

## Deuteronomy 6:5 (id: 168076)

**With what should Israel love Yahweh?**

They should love Yahweh with all their heart, all their soul, and all their might.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 6:5

## Deuteronomy 6:6–7 (id: 168077)

**When should the people diligently teach the commandments that are in their hearts to their children?**

They should teach the commandments to their children when they sit in the house, walk on the road, lie down, and when they get up.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 6:6–DEU 6:7

## Deuteronomy 6:10–12 (id: 168078)

**When should Isreal not forget Yahweh?**

They should not forget Yahweh when they eat and are satisfied in the land that Yahweh swore to their fathers.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 6:10–DEU 6:12

## Deuteronomy 6:15 (id: 168079)

**What will happen to Israel if they serve other gods and cause Yahweh, a jealous God, to be angry?**

If Yahweh’s anger is kindled against them, he will destroy them from the surface of the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 6:15

## Deuteronomy 6:16 (id: 168080)

**What did they do at Massah that they should not repeat?**

They tested Yahweh at Massah.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 6:16

## Deuteronomy 6:20–23 (id: 168081)

**How should the people respond when their son asks about the covenant decrees, the statutes, and the other decrees that Yahweh commanded?**

They should tell their sons that they were Pharaoh’s slaves when Yahweh brought them out of Egypt and gave them the land that he swore to their fathers.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 6:20–DEU 6:23

## Deuteronomy 6:24 (id: 168082)

**Why should the people fear Yahweh?**

They should fear him for their good, so that he might keep them alive.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 6:24

## Deuteronomy 7:2 (id: 168083)

**What must the people do to the people of the land that Yahweh is giving them to possess?**

They must attack and utterly destroy them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 7:2

## Deuteronomy 7:2–3 (id: 168084)

**What must the Israelites not do with the people of those nations?**

They are not to make covenant wiith them, show them mercy, or arrange any marriages with them for their sons or daughters.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 7:2–DEU 7:3

## Deuteronomy 7:5 (id: 168085)

**How should Isreal deal with the people of these nations?**

They should break down their altars, dash their sacred stone pillars, cut down their Asherah poles, and burn their cast idols.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 7:5

## Deuteronomy 7:8 (id: 168086)

**How did Yahweh keep his oath to the chosen people?**

Yahweh kept his oath and redeemed them out of the house of bondage, from Pharaoh’s hand.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 7:8

## Deuteronomy 7:9 (id: 168087)

**What will happen to those who love Yahweh and keep his commandments?**

To those that love him, God will keep his covenants and be faithful for a thousand generations.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 7:9

## Deuteronomy 7:12–13 (id: 168088)

**In what ways will the people be blessed by Yahweh if they keep his decrees?**

God will bless them by multiplying them, and the fruit of their ground, grain, wine, oil, and multiply their animals.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 7:12–DEU 7:13

## Deuteronomy 7:17–19 (id: 168089)

**What will God do to the nations whom Israel fears?**

God will bring on them the same great sufferings and other displays of his power that they saw in Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 7:17–DEU 7:19

## Deuteronomy 7:20 (id: 168090)

**How long did God send the hornet among them?**

God sent the hornet until those who were left and hiding from Israel perished.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 7:20

## Deuteronomy 7:21–22 (id: 168091)

**Why should the people not be frightened among the people?**

God, who is great and fearsome, is among the Israelites.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 7:21–DEU 7:22

## Deuteronomy 7:23 (id: 168092)

**How will God give the people victory over the nations?**

God will greatly confuse the nations in battle until they are destroyed.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 7:23

## Deuteronomy 7:25–26 (id: 168093)

**What are they to do to the gods of the nations?**

They are to burn the carved figures of the gods.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 7:25–DEU 7:26

## Deuteronomy 8:2 (id: 168094)

**What should the people of Israel call to mind?**

They should call to mind how God humbled and tested them for forty years in the wilderness.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 8:2

## Deuteronomy 8:3 (id: 168095)

**Why did Yahweh humble, make hungry, and feed the people with manna?**

He did these things to make the people know that they could not live by bread alone but rather by everything that proceeds out of the mouth of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 8:3

## Deuteronomy 8:4 (id: 168096)

**How did the people survive the forty years in the wilderness?**

Their clothing did not grow old on them and their feet did not swell.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 8:4

## Deuteronomy 8:5 (id: 168097)

**How did Yahweh correct the Israelites?**

As a man corrects his son, so Yahweh corrected them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 8:5

## Deuteronomy 8:7–8 (id: 168098)

**What is in the good land into which God is bringing them?**

The land will be filled with brooks of water, fountains and springs, wheat and barley, vines, fig trees, pomegrantes, olive trees, and honey.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 8:7–DEU 8:8

## Deuteronomy 8:10 (id: 168099)

**Why will the people bless Yahweh?**

They will bless him because of the good land that he has given them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 8:10

## Deuteronomy 8:11 (id: 168100)

**What were the people reminded not to do?**

They were reminded not to forget Yahweh and neglect his commandments.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 8:11

## Deuteronomy 8:13–14 (id: 168101)

**Why might the people forget Yahweh who brought them out of Egypt?**

When their herds and flocks multiply, and their silver and gold increases, their hear may be lifted up and they might forget Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 8:13–DEU 8:14

## Deuteronomy 8:15–16 (id: 168102)

**How did Yahweh provide water and food in the terrible wilderness for the people of Israel?**

Yahweh brought water out of the rock of flint for them and provided manna for them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 8:15–DEU 8:16

## Deuteronomy 8:19–20 (id: 168103)

**What would cause the people to perish like the nations before them?**

They would perish if they forgot where their wealth came from, walk after other gods, and not listen to the voice of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 8:19–DEU 8:20

## Deuteronomy 9:1 (id: 168104)

**Where are the people of Israel preparing to go?**

Israel is about to cross over the Jordan.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 9:1

## Deuteronomy 9:3 (id: 168105)

**What will happen before Israel crosses Jordan?**

Yahweh will go before them and will destroy the nations like a devouring fire.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 9:3

## Deuteronomy 9:4 (id: 168106)

**What did Moses tell the people not to think in think in their heart after Yahweh thrust their enemies out of the land?**

He told Israel not to think it was because of Israel’s righteousness that Yahweh gave them possession of the land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 9:4

## Deuteronomy 9:5 (id: 168107)

**What is the reason God driving the nations out before Israel crosses the Jordan?**

He is driving them out because of their wickedness, and to keep his word that he swore to Israel’s ancestors, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 9:5

## Deuteronomy 9:7–8 (id: 168108)

**Why was Yahweh angry with the people of Israel?**

He was angry enough to destroy them because they provoked him and were rebellious against him.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 9:7–DEU 9:8

## Deuteronomy 9:9 (id: 168109)

**What did Moses eat and drink on the mountain?**

He did not eat or drink for forty days and forty nights on the mountain.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 9:9

## Deuteronomy 9:12 (id: 168110)

**Why did Yahweh tell Moses to quickly go down from the mountain?**

Yahweh told him the people had corrupted themselves by turning away from the path that Yahweh commanded and made themselves an idol.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 9:12

## Deuteronomy 9:13–14 (id: 168111)

**Why did Yahweh say he would blot out Israel and make a mightier nation than they were?**

Yahweh said he had seen that they were a stubborn people.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 9:13–DEU 9:14

## Deuteronomy 9:15–16 (id: 168112)

**What had Israel made in their sin?**

They had sinned against Yahweh by molding a calf as an idol.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 9:15–DEU 9:16

## Deuteronomy 9:17–18 (id: 168113)

**What did Moses do after he saw that the people had done evil in the sight of Yahweh?**

He threw the tablets and broke them before their eyes, he laid face down before Yahweh for forty days and nights, and did not eat or drink.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 9:17–DEU 9:18

## Deuteronomy 9:19–20 (id: 168114)

**Why did Moses pray for the people and Aaron?**

He prayed because Yahweh was angry and displeased with the people and Aaron, enough to destroy them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 9:19–DEU 9:20

## Deuteronomy 9:21 (id: 168115)

**What did Moses do to the calf that the people had made?**

Moses burned it, beat it, and ground it very small and threw its dust into the stream that came down from the mountain.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 9:21

## Deuteronomy 9:22–24 (id: 168116)

**How did the people provoke Yahweh to wrath?**

They rebelled against the commandment of Yahweh and they did not believe or listen to his voice.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 9:22–DEU 9:24

## Deuteronomy 9:25–26 (id: 168117)

**What was Moses’ prayer as he laid face down for forty days and nights?**

He prayed that Yahweh’s people and inheritance would not be destroyed.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 9:25–DEU 9:26

## Deuteronomy 9:27–28 (id: 168118)

**What did Moses ask Yahweh not to let the people of the land say?**

He asks Yahweh not to let the people say that Yahweh brought Israel into the wilderness to kill them because he hated them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 9:27–DEU 9:28

## Deuteronomy 10:2 (id: 168119)

**Where did Yahweh tell Moses to place two tablets of stone on which he would write Yahweh’s words?**

Yahweh told him he to place the two tablets of stone into the chest of wood that Moses would make.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 10:2

## Deuteronomy 10:4 (id: 168120)

**What did Yahweh write on the tablets of stone when Moses went up the mountain with them?**

Yahweh wrote the Ten Commandments on the tablets like the first writing.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 10:4

## Deuteronomy 10:5 (id: 168121)

**Where did Moses put the two tablets when he returned from the mountain?**

He put them into the chest that he had made as Yahweh commanded him.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 10:5

## Deuteronomy 10:6 (id: 168122)

**What happened to Aaron in Moserah?**

Aaron died and was buried in Moserah.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 10:6

## Deuteronomy 10:8 (id: 168123)

**What tribe had Yahweh chosen to bear the box and to stand before Yahweh?**

Yahweh chose the Tribe of Levi to bear the box and to stand before him to serve him and to bless people in his name.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 10:8

## Deuteronomy 10:10 (id: 168124)

**How long did Moses stay on the mountain this time?**

He stayed on the mountain forty days and forty nights, as at the first time.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 10:10

## Deuteronomy 10:12–13 (id: 168125)

**What does Moses say that Yahweh requires of Israel?**

Yahweh requires Israel to fear him, walk in all his ways, love him, worship him with all their heart and soul, and to keep his commandments.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 10:12–DEU 10:13

## Deuteronomy 10:16 (id: 168126)

**Why did Moses tell the people to circumcise?**

He told them to circumcise the foreskin of their hearts.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 10:16

## Deuteronomy 10:19 (id: 168127)

**Why should Israel love the foreigner?**

Israel should love the foreigner because they were foreigners in the land of Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 10:19

## Deuteronomy 10:22 (id: 168128)

**How has God blessed the fathers that went down into Egypt?**

They went down into Egypt as seventy people and God multipled them to be as many as the stars of the heavens.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 10:22

## Deuteronomy 11:1 (id: 168129)

**What four things of Yahweh does Moses tell the people to always keep?**

He tells them to always keep Yahweh’s instructions, his statutes, his decrees, and his commandments.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 11:1

## Deuteronomy 11:2 (id: 168130)

**Who did not know or see the punishment of Yahweh and the display of his power in Egypt?**

The children of the Israelites did not know or did not see Yahweh’s punishment or power in Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 11:2

## Deuteronomy 11:4 (id: 168131)

**What did Yahweh use to overwhelm the army of Egypt when they pursued after Israel?**

Yahweh made the water of the Red Sea overwhelm the army as they pursued after Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 11:4

## Deuteronomy 11:7 (id: 168132)

**What have the eyes of the Israelites seen?**

The eyes of the Israelites have seen all the great works that Yahweh did.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 11:7

## Deuteronomy 11:8–9 (id: 168133)

**What will happen to the people if they keep all the commandments?**

If they keep all the commandments, they will be strong, go in and possess the land, and their days will be prolonged.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 11:8–DEU 11:9

## Deuteronomy 11:11 (id: 168134)

**How and why is the promised land different from the land of Egypt?**

The land is a land of hills and valleys, and drinks water of the rain of the heavens.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 11:11

## Deuteronomy 11:14 (id: 168135)

**What would Yahweh give them if they listen to his commandments, love and serve him with their heart and soul?**

Yahweh will give them the former and latter rain, that they may gather their grain, new wine, and oil.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 11:14

## Deuteronomy 11:17 (id: 168136)

**What will Yahweh do if the people turn aside and worship other gods?**

He will become angry and shut up the heavens so there will not be any rains.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 11:17

## Deuteronomy 11:19 (id: 168137)

**When should the people of Israel teach their children the commandments of Yahweh?**

They should teach their children the commandments when they sit, and walk, and lie down, and get up.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 11:19

## Deuteronomy 11:21 (id: 168138)

**What should the people do so that their days and the days of their children may be multiplied?**

They will write the commandments on the doorposts of their house and on their city gates.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 11:21

## Deuteronomy 11:22–23 (id: 168139)

**If the people keep all the commandments of Yahweh and cling to him, what will he do for them?**

Yahweh will drive out all the nations before them and they will dispossess larger and mightier nations than themselves.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 11:22–DEU 11:23

## Deuteronomy 11:25 (id: 168140)

**Why would no man be able to stand before Israel?**

Yahweh will put the fear and terror of Israel upon all that land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 11:25

## Deuteronomy 11:26 (id: 168141)

**What did Moses set before Israel that day?**

He set before them a blessing and a curse.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 11:26

## Deuteronomy 11:31 (id: 168142)

**Where must the people go in order to possess the land?**

They must cross over the Jordan to possess and live in the land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 11:31

## Deuteronomy 12:2 (id: 168143)

**What places did Moses tell Israel to destroy?**

They were to destroy all the places where the nations that Israel dispossessed had worshiped their gods.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:2

## Deuteronomy 12:3 (id: 168144)

**What does Yahweh instruct the people of Israel do to the name of the gods of the nations?**

He told Israel to destroy their name out of that place.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:3

## Deuteronomy 12:5 (id: 168145)

**In what place were the people of Israel to go and bring their burnt offerings, their sacrifices, their tithes, and the offerings.**

They were to go to the place that Yahweh their God would choose.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:5

## Deuteronomy 12:8 (id: 168146)

**What kinds of things were the people of Israel doing?**

They were doing whatever was right in their own eyes.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:8

## Deuteronomy 12:10 (id: 168147)

**What kind of rest will Yahweh give to Israel when they go over the Jordan?**

He will give them rest from all their enemies round about, so they will live in safety.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:10

## Deuteronomy 12:15 (id: 168148)

**What animals can Israel kill and eat?**

Israel can kill and eat animals within all their gates.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:15

## Deuteronomy 12:16 (id: 168149)

**What was Israel not allowed to eat?**

Israel was not allowed to eat the blood, but must pour it out on the earth like water.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:16

## Deuteronomy 12:17 (id: 168150)

**Where was Israel told they could not eat their tithes and sacrifices?**

They could not eat them within their gates.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:17

## Deuteronomy 12:18 (id: 168151)

**Where were the people of Israel to eat their tithes and sacrifices?**

They were to eat them before Yahweh their God in the place that he will choose.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:18

## Deuteronomy 12:19 (id: 168152)

**What was Israel told not to forget?**

They were told to not forget the Levite as long as they live in the land of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:19

## Deuteronomy 12:20 (id: 168153)

**What can Israel eat when Yahweh their God enlarges their borders as he has promised them?**

Israel can eat meat, as their soul desires.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:20

## Deuteronomy 12:21 (id: 168154)

**What can Israel eat if the place that Yahweh their God chooses to put his name is too far from them?**

If the place that Yahweh Israel’s God chooses to put his name is too far from Israel, then Israel may kill some of their flock that Yahweh has given them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:21

## Deuteronomy 12:23–24 (id: 168155)

**What is Israel supposed to do with the blood of life?**

Israel should not eat the blood of life, but should pour it out on the earth like water.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:23–DEU 12:24

## Deuteronomy 12:26 (id: 168156)

**What is Israel instructed to take and go to the place that Yahweh chooses?**

Israel is to take the consecrated things that they have and the offerings of their vows to the place that Yahweh chooses.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:26

## Deuteronomy 12:27 (id: 168157)

**Where is Israel to offer their burnt offerings, the meat and the blood, on the altar of Yahweh your God?**

Israel is to go to the place that Yahweh chooses to offer their burnt offerings, the meat and the blood,on the altar of Yahweh their God.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:27

## Deuteronomy 12:28 (id: 168158)

**What is Israel instructed to do so that it may go well with them and with their children after them forever?**

Israel is to observe and listen to all the words that Yahweh commands them and do what is good and right in the eyes of Yahweh their God so that it may go well with them and with their children after them forever.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:28

## Deuteronomy 12:30 (id: 168159)

**What does Yahweh instruct Israel to watch out for when God cuts off the nations before them and when Israel goes in to dispossess them and live in their land?**

Israel is to pay attention so that they are not trapped into following or investigating the gods of those nations from before them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:30

## Deuteronomy 12:31 (id: 168160)

**What have the other nations done to their sons and daughters in order to worship the gods?**

The other nations have even burned their sons and daughters in fire for these other gods.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 12:31

## Deuteronomy 13:3 (id: 168161)

**Why should the people of Israel not listen to the words of a prophet or dreamer of dreams who gives a sign or a wonder and says “Let us go after other gods, that you have not known and let us worship them.”**

The people of Israel should not listen because Yahweh is testing the them to know whether they love him with all their heart and with all their soul.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 13:3

## Deuteronomy 13:5 (id: 168162)

**What should the people of Israel do to the prophet or dreamer of dreams who tells them to worship other gods?**

They should put to death that prophet or dreamer of dreams.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 13:5

## Deuteronomy 13:9 (id: 168163)

**What have the people of Israel been instructed to do to anyone who secretly entices them and says “Let us go and worship other gods that you have not known?”**

They must surely kill anyone who entices them to worship other gods.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 13:9

## Deuteronomy 13:10 (id: 168164)

**How should the people of Israel kill the person who tries to draw them away from Yahweh their God?**

They should stone that person to death with stones.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 13:10

## Deuteronomy 13:14 (id: 168165)

**What shall the people of Israel do if they hear anyone say that wicked fellows have gone out from one of their cities and said “Let us go and worship other gods?”**

They should make search and investigate it thoroughly, so see if it is true.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 13:14

## Deuteronomy 13:15 (id: 168166)

**What should Israel do to a city if they learn it is true that the inhabitants said to go and worship other gods?**

They should attack the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword and destroy it completely.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 13:15

## Deuteronomy 13:17 (id: 168167)

**What must not happen to the things consigned for destruction?**

Those things must not stick to Israel’s hand, so that Yahweh will turn from the fierceness of his anger.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 13:17

## Deuteronomy 14:1 (id: 168168)

**What does Moses instruct the people of Yahweh not to do?**

They are not to cut themselves, nor shave any part of their face for the dead.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 14:1

## Deuteronomy 14:6 (id: 168169)

**What are the two characteristics of the animals that the Israelites are allowed to eat?**

Israel may eat any animal that parts the hoof and that also chews the cud.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 14:6

## Deuteronomy 14:8 (id: 168170)

**Why is the pig not to be eaten?**

The pig is unclean for the Israelites because he parts the hoof but does not chew the cud.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 14:8

## Deuteronomy 14:9 (id: 168171)

**What are the characteristics of the things from the water that the Israelites are allowed to eat?**

They may eat whatever has both fins and scales.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 14:9

## Deuteronomy 14:19 (id: 168172)

**Are the Israelites allowed to eat winged swarming things?**

All winged, swarming things are unclean for the Israelites and must not be eaten.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 14:19

## Deuteronomy 14:21 (id: 168173)

**May the Israelites eat anything that dies of itself?**

They may not eat anything that dies of itself, but they may give it to a foreigner.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 14:21

## Deuteronomy 14:21 (#2) (id: 168174)

**What could the Israelites not do to a young goat?**

They must not boil a young goat in its mother’s milk.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 14:21

## Deuteronomy 14:22 (id: 168175)

**What are the Israelites to do with all the yield of their seed?**

Israelites must surely tithe all the yield of their seed.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 14:22

## Deuteronomy 14:23 (id: 168176)

**Where must the Israelites eat the tithe of their grain, of their new wine, and of their oil, and the firstborn of their herd and their flock?**

Israel must eat the tithe of their grain, of their new wine, and of their oil, and the firstborn of their herd and their flock in the place that he will choose as his sanctuary.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 14:23

## Deuteronomy 14:24–25 (id: 168177)

**What are the Israelites allowed to do with the tithe if the place that Yahweh will choose as his sanctuary is too far away?**

They can convert the offering into money, tie up the money in their hand, and go to the place that Yahweh has chosen if the journey is too long for them so that they can not carry the tithe.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 14:24–DEU 14:25

## Deuteronomy 14:27 (id: 168178)

**Who has no inheritance with the Israelites and must not be forsaken?**

The Levite who is within their gates has no inheritance and must not be forsaken.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 14:27

## Deuteronomy 14:28–29 (id: 168179)

**What are the Israelites instructed to do at the end of every three years?**

At the end of every three years the Israelites are to present all the tithe of their produce in the same year to the Levite, the foreigner, the fatherless, and the widow.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 14:28–DEU 14:29

## Deuteronomy 15:1 (id: 168180)

**What must the Israelites do at the end of every seven years?**

At the end of every seven years the Israelites must cancel debts.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 15:1

## Deuteronomy 15:2 (id: 168181)

**Why is every debt to be canceled every seven years?**

Every creditor will cancel that which he has lent to his neighbor or his brother because Yahweh’s cancellation of debt has been proclaimed.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 15:2

## Deuteronomy 15:3 (id: 168182)

**From whom can Israelites continue to demand payment at the end of every seven years?**

The Israelites can continue to demand payment of a debt from a foreigner.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 15:3

## Deuteronomy 15:4 (id: 168183)

**Why will there be no poor among the Israelites?**

Yahweh will surely bless them in the land that he gives to Israel as an inheritance to possess.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 15:4

## Deuteronomy 15:6 (id: 168184)

**What will happen to the Israelites to demonstrate that Yahweh the God of Israel has blessed them?**

Israel will lend to many nations, but will not borrow; Israel will rule over many nations, but the other nations will not rule over Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 15:6

## Deuteronomy 15:7 (id: 168185)

**What are the Israelites told to do if there is a poor man among them?**

The Israelites are told not to harden their heart nor shut their hand from their poor brother.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 15:7

## Deuteronomy 15:9 (id: 168186)

**What should the Israelites be careful to not to do when the seventh year, the year of release is near?**

They should not refuse to give to a poor brother at a time when the seventh year, the year of release, is near.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 15:9

## Deuteronomy 15:10 (id: 168187)

**What will Yahweh do for the Israelites in return for giving to the poor at a time when the seventh year is near?**

Yahweh will bless the Israelites in all their work and everything to which they put their hand.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 15:10

## Deuteronomy 15:11 (id: 168188)

**Why is Israel commanded to open their hands to their brother, to the needy and the poor in their land?**

the poor will never cease to exist in the land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 15:11

## Deuteronomy 15:14 (id: 168189)

**What are Israelites instructed to give a Hebrew man or a Hebrew woman who is released to go free in the seventh year?**

They must provide for them freely out of the flock, out of the threshing floor and out of the wine press just as Yahweh their God has blessed the Israelite.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 15:14

## Deuteronomy 15:15 (id: 168190)

**What are the Israelites to remember as they give to the one they set free?**

The Israelites are told to remember that they were slaves in the land of Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 15:15

## Deuteronomy 15:16–17 (id: 168191)

**What is an Israelite to do to a male or female servant who says “I will not go away from you”?**

the Israelite is to take an awl and thrust it through the slave’s ear to a door, and he or she will be that Israelite’s servant forever.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 15:16–DEU 15:17

## Deuteronomy 15:18 (id: 168192)

**Why should it not seem difficult for the Israelite to let the slave go free?**

It should not be difficult because he has served them for six years and given twice the value of a hired person.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 15:18

## Deuteronomy 15:19–20 (id: 168193)

**What must the people of Israel do with the firstborn males in their herd and their flock?**

They must eat the firstborn before Yahweh year by year with their household in the place that Yahweh will choose.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 15:19–DEU 15:20

## Deuteronomy 15:21 (id: 168194)

**What are the Israelites to do with the firstborn animal if it is lame or blind or has any blemish whatever?**

They must not sacrifice it to Yahweh, but instead they should eat it within their gates.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 15:21

## Deuteronomy 15:23 (id: 168195)

**What are the Israelites to do with the blood of the firstborn that is blemished?**

They must pour the blood of the firstborn that is blemished on the ground like water.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 15:23

## Deuteronomy 16:1 (id: 168196)

**Why are the Israelites to observe the month of Abib and keep the Passover for Yahweh their God?**

Yahweh he brought Israel out of Egypt by night in the month of Abib.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:1

## Deuteronomy 16:2 (id: 168197)

**What will the Israelites do to observe the Passover?**

The Israelites will sacrifice some of the flock and the herd in the place that Yahweh will choose as his sanctuary.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:2

## Deuteronomy 16:3–4 (id: 168198)

**Why are the Israelites to eat no leavened bread or have yeast among all of their borders for seven days?**

They are to eat no leavened bread or have yeast because they came out of the land of Egypt in haste.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:3–DEU 16:4

## Deuteronomy 16:4 (id: 168199)

**What are the Israelites to do with any meat that they sacrifice in the evening on the first day?**

The Israelites are to get rid of any of the meat that they sacrifice on the evening of the first day so that it does not remain until the morning.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:4

## Deuteronomy 16:6 (id: 168200)

**Where are the Israelites to sacrifice the Passover?**

They are to sacrifice at the place that Yahweh will choose as his sanctuary.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:6

## Deuteronomy 16:6 (#2) (id: 168201)

**When will the sacrifice of the Passover be performed?**

The sacrifice of the Passover is to be performed in the evening at the going down of the sun, at the time of year that you came out of Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:6

## Deuteronomy 16:8 (id: 168202)

**What are the Israelites supposed to do on the first six days as they celebrate Passover?**

The Israelites are to eat unleavened bread for six days.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:8

## Deuteronomy 16:8 (#2) (id: 168203)

**What are the Israelites supposed to do on the seventh day as they celebrate Passover?**

On the seventh day, they are to have a solemn assembly and do no work.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:8

## Deuteronomy 16:9–10 (id: 168204)

**How do the Israelites determine the start of the Festival of Weeks for Yahweh?**

The Israelites will count seven weeks from the time they begin to put the sickle to the standing grain.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:9–DEU 16:10

## Deuteronomy 16:10 (id: 168205)

**What contribution do the Israelites give on the Festival of Weeks?**

They must give Yahweh a free will offering according as Yahweh has blessed them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:10

## Deuteronomy 16:12 (id: 168206)

**What must everyone in Israel, including the foreigners, call to mind during the Festival of Weeks?**

They must call to mind when they were slaves in Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:12

## Deuteronomy 16:13 (id: 168207)

**What festival are the Israelites instructed to keep for seven days after they have gathered in the harvest from the Israelite’s threshing floor and from their wine press?**

They are to keep the Festival of Shelters for seven days after they begin have gathered in their harvest.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:13

## Deuteronomy 16:16 (id: 168208)

**At what the three festivals must all the males of Israel appear before Yahweh at the place that Yahweh chooses?**

They must appear before him at the Festival of Unleavened Bread, the Festival of Weeks, and at the Festival of Shelters.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:16

## Deuteronomy 16:17 (id: 168209)

**What is every male Israelite supposed to give to Yahweh instead of coming empty\-handed?**

Every male Israelite is to give what he is able to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:17

## Deuteronomy 16:18 (id: 168210)

**Where are the Israelites to find their judges and officers?**

The judges and officers will be taken from each of their tribes to judge the people with righteous judgement.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:18

## Deuteronomy 16:19 (id: 168211)

**Why are the judges and officers not to force justice or show partiality by taking a bribe?**

A bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and perverts the words of the righteous

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:19

## Deuteronomy 16:20 (id: 168212)

**What do the judges and officers gain by following justice.**

They must follow after justice and justice alone, so that they may live and inherit the land that Yahweh is giving them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:20

## Deuteronomy 16:21–22 (id: 168213)

**What are the Israelites not to set up for themselves?**

They are not to set up an Ashera, or any sort of pole, or any sacred stone pillar.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 16:21–DEU 16:22

## Deuteronomy 17:1 (id: 168214)

**Why must the Israelites not sacrifice an ox or a sheep with any blemish or anything bad to Yahweh?**

It would be disgusting to Yahweh if they sacrificed an animal with a blemish or anything bad.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 17:1

## Deuteronomy 17:4 (id: 168215)

**What are the Israelites told to do if they hear that a man or woman within their cities have done what is evil in the sight of Yahweh?**

The Israelites are to make careful investigation to know if this is true and certain.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 17:4

## Deuteronomy 17:5 (id: 168216)

**What are the Israelites to do with a man or woman who has done such a wicked thing as worshiping other gods and bowing down to them?**

The Israelites are to stone them to death.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 17:5

## Deuteronomy 17:6 (id: 168217)

**How many witnesses are needed to convict a person to death?**

Two or three witnesses are needed to to convict a person to death.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 17:6

## Deuteronomy 17:7 (id: 168218)

**Who must throw the first stones when putting a person to death?**

The hand of the witnesses must be the first to throw the stones, followed by the rest of the people of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 17:7

## Deuteronomy 17:7 (#2) (id: 168219)

**Why must the Israelites stone the person to death who has done this wicked thing of worshiping other gods?**

This will remove the evil from among them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 17:7

## Deuteronomy 17:9 (id: 168220)

**Who is to judge if the Israelites have a matter that is too hard for them to judge?**

They must go to the priests and Levites and to the judge who is serving at that time to seek the advice of the priests.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 17:9

## Deuteronomy 17:12 (id: 168221)

**What man must die in order to put away the evil from Israel?**

Anyone who acts arrogantly and does not listen to the priest, or does not listen to the judge, must die to put away the evil from Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 17:12

## Deuteronomy 17:15 (id: 168222)

**Who will the Israelites set up as a king over them at the time when they are in the land?**

Israelites will select from among their brothers someone who Yahweh will choose.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 17:15

## Deuteronomy 17:16 (id: 168223)

**Why must the king of Israel not multiply horses for himself, nor cause the people to return to Egypt so that the king may multiply horses?**

He must not to multiply horses or cause the people to return to Egypt because Yahweh has told the Israelites to never return that way again.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 17:16

## Deuteronomy 17:17 (id: 168224)

**Why is the king told not to multiply wives for himself?**

He is not to multiply wives for himself so that his heart does not turn away from Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 17:17

## Deuteronomy 17:18–19 (id: 168225)

**What is the king instructed to keep with him and read all the days of his life, so that he may learn to honor Yahweh his God, and keep and observe all the words of this law and these statutes?**

He must write for himself a copy of this law which is to stay will him and be read by him all the days of his life.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 17:18–DEU 17:19

## Deuteronomy 17:20 (id: 168226)

**Why is the king instructed to keep the scroll of the law with him?**

He must keep the scroll with him so that his heart is not lifted up above his brothers, and so that he does not turn away from the commandments.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 17:20

## Deuteronomy 18:1–2 (id: 168227)

**Why would the Levite priests have to eat the offerings of Yahweh as their inheritance?**

The Levite priests would have to eat the offerings because they would have no inheritance among their brothers.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 18:1–DEU 18:2

## Deuteronomy 18:3–4 (id: 168228)

**What was to be given to the priests from the sacrifices of the people?**

The priests were to be given the shoulder, two cheeks, and inner parts of the oxen and sheep and the first fruits of grain, new wine, oil, and fleece of the sheep from the sacrifices of the people.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 18:3–DEU 18:4

## Deuteronomy 18:5 (id: 168229)

**Why were the priests supposed to receive these portions from the sacrifices of the people?**

They were to receive these portions because Yahweh chose them to stand to serve in the name of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 18:5

## Deuteronomy 18:6–7 (id: 168230)

**When can a Levite serve in the place that Yahweh will choose as his sanctuary?**

A Levite can serve in the place that Yahweh will choose as his sanctuary when he comes out of any of the city gates of Israel with the desire of his soul to serve Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 18:6–DEU 18:7

## Deuteronomy 18:9–11 (id: 168231)

**What were some of the disgusting practices followed by the nations?**

Some of the disgusting practices were making their children pass through the fire, using divination, practicing augury, using sorcery and talking with the dead or spirits.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 18:9–DEU 18:11

## Deuteronomy 18:12–14 (id: 168232)

**Why will Yahweh drive out the nations from the land?**

Yahweh will drive out the nations from the land because they listen to those who practice sorcery and divination.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 18:12–DEU 18:14

## Deuteronomy 18:15 (id: 168233)

**Who did Yahweh promise to raise up from among the people?**

Yahweh promised he would raise up a prophet like Moses in the future from Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 18:15

## Deuteronomy 18:20 (id: 168234)

**What would cause a prophet to die?**

A prophet will die if he speaks a word arrogantly in Yahweh’s name, a word that Yahweh has not commanded him to speak, or he speaks in the name of other gods.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 18:20

## Deuteronomy 18:22 (id: 168235)

**What does it mean if a prophecy spoken in Yahweh’s name does not happen?**

If a prophecy does not happen, then the prophecy is something that Yahweh has not spoken.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 18:22

## Deuteronomy 19:1–3 (id: 168236)

**Why did Yahweh instruct the people to select three cities in the middle of the land?**

He instructed the people to select three cities so that everyone who kills another person could flee there.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 19:1–DEU 19:3

## Deuteronomy 19:4–5 (id: 168237)

**What provision does Yahweh make for the person who kills his neighbor unawares, and did not previously hate him?**

Yahweh provided three cities of refuge to which the man could flee and live.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 19:4–DEU 19:5

## Deuteronomy 19:6–7 (id: 168238)

**Why should the one who kills another flee to a city of refuge?**

He should flee so that the deceased relative does not pursue in anger, catch, and kill him.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 19:6–DEU 19:7

## Deuteronomy 19:8–9 (id: 168239)

**What would be the conditions for adding three more cities of refuge?**

If Yahweh enlarged their borders, then they must add three more cities of refuge.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 19:8–DEU 19:9

## Deuteronomy 19:11–13 (id: 168240)

**What should happen if a person hates his neighbor, lies in wait for him, mortally wounds him, and then flees to one of the cities of refuge?**

The elders of this man’s city must bring him back and turn him over to the responsible relative so that he may die as punishment for the blood guilt from Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 19:11–DEU 19:13

## Deuteronomy 19:15 (id: 168241)

**How many witnesses are needed for a matter to be confirmed?**

It is necessary for two or three witnesses to speak for a matter to be confirmed.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 19:15

## Deuteronomy 19:17–18 (id: 168242)

**What should be done when controversy exists between two men?**

Then both men, the ones between whom the controversy exists, must stand before Yahweh, before the priests and the judges who serve in those days. The judges must make diligent inquiries; see, if the witness is a false witness and has testified falsely against his brother.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 19:17–DEU 19:18

## Deuteronomy 19:19 (id: 168243)

**What must be done if the testimony of a witness is found to be false?**

If the testimony of a witness is found to be false, then they must do to him as he had wished to do to his brother.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 19:19

## Deuteronomy 20:1 (id: 168244)

**Why must the people of Israel not be afraid when they march out to battle against their enemies?**

The people of Israel must not be afraid because Yahweh their God, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, will be with them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 20:1

## Deuteronomy 20:2–4 (id: 168245)

**What must happen when the people of Israel draw near to the battle?**

The priest must speak to the people and tell them not to be afraid, but Yahweh is with them to fight for them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 20:2–DEU 20:4

## Deuteronomy 20:5 (id: 168246)

**What should a man do if he as built a new house and not yet dedicated it?**

He should return to his house so he does not die in battle and another man dedicate it.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 20:5

## Deuteronomy 20:7 (id: 168247)

**What should a man do if he is engaged to a woman and not yet married her?**

He should return and marry her so he does not die in battle and another man marry her.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 20:7

## Deuteronomy 20:10–11 (id: 168248)

**What will happen if the people in a faraway city accept an offer of peace when Israel attacks it?**

All the people in the city must become forced labor and serve Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 20:10–DEU 20:11

## Deuteronomy 20:12–13 (id: 168249)

**What must happen if the city does not accept the offer of peace, but instead makes war against Israel?**

Israel must attack it and when Yahweh gives Israel victory they must kill every man in the town.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 20:12–DEU 20:13

## Deuteronomy 20:16–18 (id: 168250)

**Why must the people of Israel utterly destroy everything that breathes in the cities of the land which Yahweh will give them as an inheritance?**

They must destroy everything so that the people of the land do not teach them to act in any of disgusting ways and sin against Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 20:16–DEU 20:18

## Deuteronomy 20:19–20 (id: 168251)

**What should Israel do with the trees in the cities which they have attacked?**

Israel should not cut down the trees that are used for food, but they can cut down the trees that are not used for food to build bulwarks against a city.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 20:19–DEU 20:20

## Deuteronomy 21:1–2 (id: 168252)

**What should happen if someone who has been killed is found lying in a field and it is not known who attacked him?**

The elders and judges should measure to determine the nearest city to the killed man.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 21:1–DEU 21:2

## Deuteronomy 21:5 (id: 168253)

**How did Yahweh want the people of Israel to respond to the words of his priests?**

Yahweh wanted them to accept the advice of his priests as the verdict in every dispute and in cases of assault.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 21:5

## Deuteronomy 21:6–7 (id: 168254)

**What ritual must the elders of the city nearest to the killed man perform so that this bloodshed will be forgiven?**

The elders of the city must wash their hands over the heifer whose neck was broken and say, “Our hands have not shed this blood nor have our eyes seen it.”

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 21:6–DEU 21:7

## Deuteronomy 21:10 (id: 168255)

**What did Moses tell the people of Israel to do when they went out to battle against their enemies and Yahweh gave them victory?**

They were told to take their enemies away as captives.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 21:10

## Deuteronomy 21:11–12 (id: 168256)

**How was an Israelite man to respond to the women who were taken captive?**

If a man saw a beautiful woman who he wanted to take for his wife, then he was to bring her home where she would shave her head and cut her nails.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 21:11–DEU 21:12

## Deuteronomy 21:13 (id: 168257)

**How long was the captive woman allowed to mourn for her mother and father?**

She would remain in mourning for her father and mother for a month before she would become the wife of the man.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 21:13

## Deuteronomy 21:14 (id: 168258)

**How was an Israelite man to treat a captive that he had taken as a wife if he did not delight in her?**

He must let her go rather than sell her for money.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 21:14

## Deuteronomy 21:15–17 (id: 168259)

**If a man has two wives, and he hates the one who has borne him his firstborn son, how must he distribute what he owns to his heirs?**

This man must acknowledge the firstborn son of the hated wife by giving him a double portion of all that he possesses.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 21:15–DEU 21:17

## Deuteronomy 21:18 (id: 168260)

**Who must a man take his stubborn and rebellious son to if the son will not obey the voice of his father or mother?**

The man and his wife must bring the son to the elders at the gate of the city.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 21:18

## Deuteronomy 21:20 (id: 168261)

**What must the father and mother of the rebellious son say to the elders of his city?**

The father and mother of the rebellious son must tell the elders, “This son of ours is stubborn and rebellious, a glutton and a drunkard and will not obey our voice”.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 21:20

## Deuteronomy 21:21 (id: 168262)

**Why must the elders of the city respond by stoning the son to death?**

They must stone the son to death to eradicate the evil from within them, and cause all Israel to hear of it and fear.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 21:21

## Deuteronomy 21:22–23 (id: 168263)

**What must happen if a man commits a sin worthy of death and is hanged on a tree?**

The man’s body must not remain all night on the tree, but must be buried the same day so the land will not be defiled.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 21:22–DEU 21:23

## Deuteronomy 22:2 (id: 168264)

**What did Moses tell the people of Israel to do when they would see an animal of a fellow Israelite go astray?**

They must not bring the animal to their own house, but return it to their fellow Israelite.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 22:2

## Deuteronomy 22:4 (id: 168265)

**What did Moses tell the people of Israel to do when they would see an animal of a fellow Israelite fallen down in the road?**

They must help their fellow Israelite lift it up again.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 22:4

## Deuteronomy 22:5 (id: 168266)

**What behavior does Yahweh find disgusting?**

Yahweh is disgusted when a woman wears men’s clothing or a man puts on women’s clothing.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 22:5

## Deuteronomy 22:6–7 (id: 168267)

**What should the people of Israel do if they find a mother in a bird’s nest with her young or sitting on the eggs?**

They must let the mother go, but the young they may take for themselves.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 22:6–DEU 22:7

## Deuteronomy 22:8 (id: 168268)

**What was required when an Israelite would build a house?**

It was required that he would make a railing for the roof so he would not bring blood on his house if anyone would fall from there.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 22:8

## Deuteronomy 22:9 (id: 168269)

**Why were the Israelites instructed to not plant their vineyards with two kinds of seeds?**

The Israelites were not to plant with two kinds of seeds so that the whole harvest would not be confiscated by the sanctuary.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 22:9

## Deuteronomy 22:12 (id: 168270)

**What must you put on the foul corners of the cloak with which you clothe yourself?**

You must make yourself fringes on the four corners of the cloak with which you clothe yourself.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 22:12

## Deuteronomy 22:18–19 (id: 168271)

**What must happen if a man has made a false accusation against his wife?**

The elders of the city must punish him by fining him one hundred shekels of silver which would be given to the father of the wife and the man could never send his wife away.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 22:18–DEU 22:19

## Deuteronomy 22:20–21 (id: 168272)

**What should happen if the proof of the wife’s virginity is not found?**

If the proof of her virginity is not found, then she must be brought out and stoned to death because she has committed a disgraceful action.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 22:20–DEU 22:21

## Deuteronomy 22:22 (id: 168273)

**What must happen if a man is found lying with a woman married to another man?**

Both the man and the woman must be stoned to death to erase the evil.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 22:22

## Deuteronomy 22:23–24 (id: 168274)

**Why are the people of Israel instructed to stone to death both a girl who is a virgin engaged to a man and another man if they are found lying together?**

They are instructed to stone both of them because the girl did not cry out when she was in the city and the man humiliated the wife of a fellow Israelite.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 22:23–DEU 22:24

## Deuteronomy 22:25–27 (id: 168275)

**What must happen if the man would force the girl to lie with him when they are out in a field?**

If this happens out in a field, then the man must die, but nothing must be done to the girl because he found her out in the field and there was no one there to save her.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 22:25–DEU 22:27

## Deuteronomy 22:28–29 (id: 168276)

**What must happen if a man lies with a girl who is a virgin, but who is not engaged and they are discovered?**

Then the man must give fiifty shekels of silver to the girl’s father and take the girl as his wife rather than sending her away.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 22:28–DEU 22:29

## Deuteronomy 22:30 (id: 168277)

**Why must a man not take his father’s wife as his own?**

A man must not take his father’s wife as his own because he would be taking away his father’s marriage rights.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 22:30

## Deuteronomy 23:1–2 (id: 168278)

**Who would not be allowed to enter into the assembly of Yahweh?**

Any male whose private parts have been crushed or cut off, or the illegitimate child is not allowed to enter into the assembly of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 23:1–DEU 23:2

## Deuteronomy 23:3–4 (id: 168279)

**Why must neither an Ammonite nor a Moabite enter into the assembly of Yahweh?**

They cannot enter into the assembly because they did not meet the Israelites with bread and water on the road when they came out of Egypt and they hired Balaam to curse them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 23:3–DEU 23:4

## Deuteronomy 23:5 (id: 168280)

**What evidence showed that Yahweh did not listen to Balaam?**

Yahweh turned the curse of Balaam into a blessing for Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 23:5

## Deuteronomy 23:7–8 (id: 168281)

**Why were Edomites and Egyptians allowed to enter into the assembly of Yahweh?**

An Edomite was allowed to be in the assembly because he was a fellow Israelite and an Egyptian was allowed in the assembly since Israel was once a foreigner in his land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 23:7–DEU 23:8

## Deuteronomy 23:9–11 (id: 168282)

**How could a man in the Israelite army who had become unclean because of what had happened to him at night became clean again so he could come back inside the camp?**

He could bathe himself in water in the evening and then be allowed to come back inside the camp.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 23:9–DEU 23:11

## Deuteronomy 23:12–14 (id: 168283)

**Why did Yahweh give instructions to the people of Israel about where and how to relieve themselves?**

Yahweh was walking in the midst of their camp, so the camp must be holy in order that Yahweh would not see any unclean thing and turn away from them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 23:12–DEU 23:14

## Deuteronomy 23:15–16 (id: 168284)

**How were the instructions Yahweh gave about slaves unusual?**

A slave who escaped from his master was not to be returned, but allowed to live with them in whatever town he chose.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 23:15–DEU 23:16

## Deuteronomy 23:17–18 (id: 168285)

**Why did Yahweh not allow any prostitutes or sodomites among the Israelites nor allow their wages to be used as a vow in his house?**

Yahweh was disgusted with anything connected with the evil behavior of the prostitutes or sodomites.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 23:17–DEU 23:18

## Deuteronomy 23:19–20 (id: 168286)

**How was the policy of lending money different when it involved foreigners instead of fellow Israelites?**

They were never to lend on interest to their fellow Israelites, but they were allowed to lend on interest to foreigners.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 23:19–DEU 23:20

## Deuteronomy 23:21–23 (id: 168287)

**How important was it for an Israelite to fulfill a vow he made to Yahweh?**

An Israelite was not to be slow in fulfilling a vow he made to Yahweh, but he was to observe what he freely promised with his mouth so that he would not be sinning against Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 23:21–DEU 23:23

## Deuteronomy 23:24–25 (id: 168288)

**How generous were the instructions from Yahweh about what the Israelites could eat from their neighbor’s vineyard and fields?**

They could eat their fill of grapes from their neighbor’s vineyard as long as they did not put any in containers and they could pluck the ears of grain from their neighbor’s field as long as they did not use a sickle.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 23:24–DEU 23:25

## Deuteronomy 24:1–2 (id: 168289)

**How does Yahweh make it possible for a man to divorce his wife?**

If a man has found some unsuitable thing in his wife, he can write her a bill of divorcement, put it in her hand, and send her out of his house where she can go and become another man’s wife.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 24:1–DEU 24:2

## Deuteronomy 24:3–4 (id: 168290)

**What does Yahweh not allow if the second husband writes her a bill of divorce and sends her out of the house or if he dies?**

Yahweh does not allow for the first husband who sent her away to take her again to be his wife.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 24:3–DEU 24:4

## Deuteronomy 24:5 (id: 168291)

**What are the benefits for a man who has taken a new wife?**

He does not have to go to war or be commanded to go on forced duty, but he can stay home for one year to make his new wife happy.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 24:5

## Deuteronomy 24:6 (id: 168292)

**Why was no man allowed to take a mill or an upper millstone as a pledge?**

No man was allowed to take them, for he would be taking a man’s livelihood as a pledge.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 24:6

## Deuteronomy 24:7 (id: 168293)

**What are the circumstances when a man would be declared a thief and must die?**

A man would be declared a thief who must die if he would kidnap any of his Israelite brothers and treat him as a slave or sell him.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 24:7

## Deuteronomy 24:8–9 (id: 168294)

**What word of caution from Yahweh about leprosy did Moses pass on to the people of Israel?**

Moses told the people of Israel to carefully observe and follow every instruction which Yahweh gave to the priests and Levites regarding any plague of leprosy.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 24:8–DEU 24:9

## Deuteronomy 24:10–11 (id: 168295)

**What restrictions were given when a loan was made to a neighbor?**

When a loan was made to a neighbor, they were not to go into the house to get the pledge, but stand outside and wait for the man who received the loan to bring out the pledge.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 24:10–DEU 24:11

## Deuteronomy 24:12–13 (id: 168296)

**What must happen if the man who gives the pledge is a poor man?**

If the man is a poor man, the man who gives him the loan must not sleep with the pledge in his possession, but restore him the pledge by the time the sun goes down so he may sleep in his cloak.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 24:12–DEU 24:13

## Deuteronomy 24:14–15 (id: 168297)

**What must the people of Israel do to not oppress a hired servant who is poor and needy?**

They must give him his wages every day because he is poor and is counting on it.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 24:14–DEU 24:15

## Deuteronomy 24:16 (id: 168298)

**How did Yahweh make it clear that everyone was responsible for their own sins?**

Yahweh told the people of Israel that the parents must not be put to death for the sins of their children and the children must not be put to death for the sins of their parents.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 24:16

## Deuteronomy 24:17–18 (id: 168299)

**Why were the people of Israel reminded about their time of slavery in Egypt and how Yahweh rescued them from there?**

They were reminded so they would not force away the justice due the foreigner or the fatherless, nor take the widow’s cloak as a pledge.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 24:17–DEU 24:18

## Deuteronomy 24:19–20 (id: 168300)

**What were the people of Israel commanded to do when they harvested their field or shook their olive tree?**

When the people of Israel harvested their field they were not to go back for a forgotten sheaf in the field or to shake their olive tree a second time, but to leave them for the foreigner, the fatherless, and the widow.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 24:19–DEU 24:20

## Deuteronomy 25:1 (id: 168301)

**How will a judge resolve a dispute between two men in court?**

He will acquit the righteous and condemn the wicked to be beaten in his presence.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 25:1

## Deuteronomy 25:3 (id: 168302)

**Why will a judge limit number of blows a wicked man will receive?**

He will order number of blows to not exceed forty blows so the wicked will not be humiliated.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 25:3

## Deuteronomy 25:5–6 (id: 168303)

**What safeguard did Yahweh institute so that the name of a man would not perish from Israel?**

If a brother died without having a son, his brother must take the dead man’s widow as his wife so that the firstborn she bears will succeed in the name of that man’s dead brother.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 25:5–DEU 25:6

## Deuteronomy 25:9–10 (id: 168304)

**What punishment did Yahweh give to the people of Israel if the man’s brother did not wish to take his brother’s wife?**

The brother’s wife will in the presence of the elders take off his sandal, spit in his face, and tell him that this is what is done when a man does not build up his brother’s house.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 25:9–DEU 25:10

## Deuteronomy 25:11–12 (id: 168305)

**What would cause a wife to have one of her hands cut off?**

If two men were fighting and the wife of one of the men grabs the private part of the other man in an attempt to rescue her husband, then her hand must be cut off.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 25:11–DEU 25:12

## Deuteronomy 25:15–16 (id: 168306)

**What kind of unrighteous act is disgusting to Yahweh?**

It is disgusting to Yahweh when a man has a large and a small weight to measure rather than a perfect and just weight.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 25:15–DEU 25:16

## Deuteronomy 25:17–19 (id: 168307)

**Why must the people of Israel blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven?**

Amalek did not honor God when Amalek met Israel on the road and attacked those who were faint and weary at the rear as they came out of Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 25:17–DEU 25:19

## Deuteronomy 26:1–2 (id: 168308)

**What must the people of Israel do when they possess the land which Yahweh has given them?**

The people of Israel must take some of the first of all the harvest of the land in a basket and go to the place Yahweh has chosen as his sanctuary.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 26:1–DEU 26:2

## Deuteronomy 26:3 (id: 168309)

**What must the people of Israel say to the priest when they give him the basket?**

The people of Israel must say to him, “I acknowledge today to Yahweh that I have come to the land that he swore to give to our ancestors.”

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 26:3

## Deuteronomy 26:5 (id: 168310)

**What must the people of Israel say was their father?**

The people of Israel must say their father was a wandering Aramean.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 26:5

## Deuteronomy 26:6 (id: 168311)

**How did the Egyptians treat the Israelites when they were in Egypt?**

They treated the Israelites badly and afflicted them, making them do the work of slaves.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 26:6

## Deuteronomy 26:8–9 (id: 168312)

**How did Yahweh bring Israel out of Egypt?**

He brought them out with a mighty hand, with a display of his power, with great fearsome power, with signs, and with wonders.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 26:8–DEU 26:9

## Deuteronomy 26:10–11 (id: 168313)

**What is the purpose for setting down the basket before Yahweh?**

The purpose is to worship Yahweh and rejoice in all the good that he has done for Israel, their house, the Levite, and the foreigner among them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 26:10–DEU 26:11

## Deuteronomy 26:12 (id: 168314)

**What must the people of Israel do after they have finished giving all the tithe from their harvest?**

The people of Israel must give it to the Levite, to the foreigner, to the fatherless, and to the widow so they may eat and be filled.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 26:12

## Deuteronomy 26:15 (id: 168315)

**What do the people of Israel want Yahweh to do for them?**

The people of Israel want Yahweh to look down from heaven and bless them in the land which he has given to them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 26:15

## Deuteronomy 26:16 (id: 168316)

**What is Yahweh commanding the people of Israel to do?**

He is commanding the people of Israel to obey his statues and decrees with all their heart and soul.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 26:16

## Deuteronomy 26:17 (id: 168317)

**What have the people of Israel acknowledged before Yahweh?**

They have acknowledged that Yahweh is their God and that they will walk in his ways, keep his commandments, and listen to his voice.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 26:17

## Deuteronomy 26:18–19 (id: 168318)

**What has Yahweh acknowledged to the people of Israel?**

Yahweh has acknowledged that Israel is his own possession and he will set them high above all the other nations in respect to praise, reputation, and honor so they will be a people that is holy to him.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 26:18–DEU 26:19

## Deuteronomy 27:1 (id: 168319)

**What did Moses and the elders of Israel command the people of Israel to keep?**

Moses and the elders of Israel told the people to keep all the commandments that Moses commanded them that day.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 27:1

## Deuteronomy 27:4 (id: 168320)

**What must the people of Israel do after they pass over the Jordan to the land which Yahweh would give them?**

They must set up some large stones with plaster and write on them all the words of the law.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 27:4

## Deuteronomy 27:5 (id: 168321)

**What must the people of Israel build on Mount Ebal?**

The people of Israel must build an altar of stone to Yahweh without using iron tools to offer burned offerings to him.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 27:5

## Deuteronomy 27:8 (id: 168322)

**What were the people of Israel to write on the stones they had plastered?**

They were to write on the stones very plainly all the words of the law.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 27:8

## Deuteronomy 27:9–10 (id: 168323)

**Why was it important for the people of Israel to hear the voice of Yahweh and obey his commandments that day?**

It was important because on that day they became the people of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 27:9–DEU 27:10

## Deuteronomy 27:11–12 (id: 168324)

**Why were six of the tribes of Israel commanded to stand on Mount Gerizim?**

Moses told the people that six of the tribes of Israel must stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 27:11–DEU 27:12

## Deuteronomy 27:13 (id: 168325)

**Why were six of the tribes of Israel commanded to stand on Mount Ebal?**

Six of the tribes of Israel were commanded to stand on Mount Ebal to pronounce curses.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 27:13

## Deuteronomy 27:15 (id: 168326)

**What is one thing that is disgusting to Yahweh?**

One thing that is disgusting to Yahweh is a carved or cast figure made by a craftsman who sets it up in secret.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 27:15

## Deuteronomy 27:20 (id: 168327)

**Why is a man cursed if he lies with his father’s wife?**

A man is cursed if he sleeps with his father’s wife, because he has taken away his father’s rights.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 27:20

## Deuteronomy 27:24–25 (id: 168328)

**What did the Levites say would happen to the man who secretly kills his neighbor or takes a bribe to kill an innocent person?**

That the man would be cursed.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 27:24–DEU 27:25

## Deuteronomy 27:26 (id: 168329)

**Why did the Levites say a man should confirm the words of this law by obeying them?**

A man should obey the words of this law so he would not be cursed.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 27:26

## Deuteronomy 28:1–2 (id: 168330)

**What did the people of Israel have to do in order to be blessed by Yahweh and to be set above all the other nations of the earth?**

The people of Israel needed to listen carefully to the voice of Yahweh and keep all his commandments.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:1–DEU 28:2

## Deuteronomy 28:7 (id: 168331)

**What will Yahweh do for the people of Israel if they will obey his commandments?**

Yahweh will cause their enemies to be struck down before them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:7

## Deuteronomy 28:9 (id: 168332)

**What will Yahweh make the people of Israel become if they will obey his commandments?**

He will establish them as a people holy to himself.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:9

## Deuteronomy 28:12 (id: 168333)

**What will Yahweh open for the people of Israel if they will obey his commandments?**

Yahweh will open to them his storehouse of the heavens to give the rain for their land at the right time, and to bless all the work of their hand.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:12

## Deuteronomy 28:15 (id: 168334)

**What will happen to the people of Israel if they will not listen to the voice of Yahweh and keep all his commandments?**

All the curses will come upon them and overtake them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:15

## Deuteronomy 28:23 (id: 168335)

**What will the skies and the earth become to the Israelites if they do not obey the commandments?**

The skies will be bronze and the earth will be iron.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:23

## Deuteronomy 28:25 (id: 168336)

**What will happen Israel when they fight their enemies if they do not obey the commandments?**

They will be struck down before their enemies, and flee seven ways before them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:25

## Deuteronomy 28:27–28 (id: 168337)

**With what will Yahweh attack the people of Israel if they are disobedient?**

He will attack them with boils, ulcers, scurvy, and itch, and also with madness, blindness, and mental confusion.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:27–DEU 28:28

## Deuteronomy 28:30 (id: 168338)

**What will happen if am Israelite is engaged to a woman, or builds a house or vineyard?**

He will not sleep with the woman, or live in the house, or enjoy the fruit of the vineyard.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:30

## Deuteronomy 28:32 (id: 168339)

**What will happen to the sons and daughters of the Israelites?**

Their sons and daughters will be given to other peoples, and they will look for them but not find them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:32

## Deuteronomy 28:37 (id: 168340)

**What will the people of Israel become among all the peoples?**

They will become a source of horror, a proverb, and a byword, among all the peoples.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:37

## Deuteronomy 28:38–39 (id: 168341)

**How will the disobedience of the people of Israel affect the crops which they plant?**

They will plant much seed, and vineyards, but they will not enjoy the fruit of their labors because the worms and the locusts will take over.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:38–DEU 28:39

## Deuteronomy 28:43–44 (id: 168342)

**How will the foreigner be more important than the people of Israel?**

The foreigner will lend to them and become the head while the people of Israel will not be able to lend and become the tail.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:43–DEU 28:44

## Deuteronomy 28:45–46 (id: 168343)

**What will happen because the people of Israel did not listen to the voice of Yahweh and keep his commandments?**

All the curses will come on them and overtake them until they are destroyed.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:45–DEU 28:46

## Deuteronomy 28:47–48 (id: 168344)

**Why will the people of Israel serve the enemies of Yahweh?**

They will serve the enemies of Yahweh because they did not worship Yahweh with joyfulness and gladness of heart when they were in prosperity.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:47–DEU 28:48

## Deuteronomy 28:49–51 (id: 168345)

**What did Moses prophesy about the people of Israel?**

Yahweh would bring a nation from far away to attack them with no respect for the aged or young, as well as taking all the food from them and their cattle.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:49–DEU 28:51

## Deuteronomy 28:54–55 (id: 168346)

**During the siege of the city what will the man who is tender and delicate among them not give to his brother or his own dear wife or whatever children he has left?**

He will not give to any of them the flesh of his own children that he is going to eat.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:54–DEU 28:55

## Deuteronomy 28:56–57 (id: 168347)

**During the siege of the city what will a woman do with her own newborn and the children whom she will bear?**

During the siege of the city a woman will eat her own newborn and the children whom she will bear.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:56–DEU 28:57

## Deuteronomy 28:59 (id: 168348)

**What will happen if the people of Israel do not honor the name of Yahweh by keeping the words in the book of the law?**

They will experience terrible plagues and severe diseases.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:59

## Deuteronomy 28:62 (id: 168349)

**How many of the few people of Israel will be left after Yahweh punishes them?**

They will be few in number and will be scattered from one end of the earth to the other end.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:62

## Deuteronomy 28:65 (id: 168350)

**Will the people of Israel find rest when they are scattered among the nations?**

They will find no ease, and there will be no rest for the bottoms of their feet.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 28:65

## Deuteronomy 29:1 (id: 168351)

**With whom did Yahweh make a covenant?**

Yahweh made a covenant with Israel in the land of Moab.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:1

## Deuteronomy 29:1 (#2) (id: 168352)

**What previous covenant had Yahweh made with the people of Israel?**

Yahweh previously made a covenant with Israel at Horeb.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:1

## Deuteronomy 29:2 (id: 168353)

**Of what did Moses remind all the people of Israel?**

Moses reminded all the people of Israel of everything that Yahweh had done before their eyes in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh, to all his servants, and to all his land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:2

## Deuteronomy 29:4 (id: 168354)

**Why did Moses say that the people of Israel needed to be reminded of the great sufferings that their eyes had seen, the signs and those great wonders?**

Moses said that until today Yahweh had not given then a heart to know, eyes to see, or ears to hear about those things.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:4

## Deuteronomy 29:5–6 (id: 168355)

**Why did Yahweh lead Israel for forty years in the wilderness where their clothes and sandals did wear out and they did not eat any bread or drink any wine or alcoholic drinks?**

He did those things so that they might know that he is Yahweh their God.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:5–DEU 29:6

## Deuteronomy 29:9 (id: 168356)

**Why did Israel need to do in order to prosper in everything?**

They needed to keep the words of this covenant and do them and so that they might prosper in everything that they did.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:9

## Deuteronomy 29:10–11 (id: 168357)

**Before whom were all of the Israelites standing?**

All of the Israelites were standing before Yahweh their God.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:10–DEU 29:11

## Deuteronomy 29:12 (id: 168358)

**Why were the Israelites standing before Yahweh their God?**

They were standing before Yahweh in order to enter into the covenant of Yahweh and into the oath that Yahweh was making with them on that day.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:12

## Deuteronomy 29:13 (id: 168359)

**What did Yahweh want to do for the people of Israel through this covenant?**

He wanted to make the people of Israel into a people for himself.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:13

## Deuteronomy 29:14–15 (id: 168360)

**What people were included in the covenant and oath that Yahweh was making with Israel that day in Moab?**

Everyone standing that day in Moab and also those who were not there with them were included in the covenant and oath that Yahweh was making with Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:14–DEU 29:15

## Deuteronomy 29:16 (id: 168361)

**About what were the people of Israel being reminded again?**

They were being reminded how they had lived in the land of Egypt and how they had come through the midst of the nations through which they had passed.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:16

## Deuteronomy 29:17–18 (id: 168362)

**Why were the people being reminded of the disgusting things they had seen when they left Egypt?**

They were being reminded of the disgusting things they had seen so that there would not be any among them whose heart would turn away from Yahweh, worship the gods of those nations and so that there would not be any root producing gall and wormwood among them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:17–DEU 29:18

## Deuteronomy 29:19 (id: 168363)

**What should the person who hears the words of the curse not say in his heart?**

The person who hears the words of the curse should not say that he will have peace though he walks in the stubbornness of his heart.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:19

## Deuteronomy 29:20 (id: 168364)

**What would happen to the man who says that he will have peace though he walks in the stubbornness of his heart?**

Yahweh will not pardon him, Yahweh’s anger and jealousy will smolder against him, all the curses written in the book will come on him and Yahweh will blot out his name from under heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:20

## Deuteronomy 29:22 (id: 168365)

**What will the generation to come ask when they see the plagues on this land and the diseases with which Yahweh has made it sick?**

They will ask why Yahweh did this to this land and what does the heat of this great anger mean.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:22

## Deuteronomy 29:24 (id: 168366)

**What will the generation to come ask when they see the plagues on this land and the diseases with which Yahweh has made it sick?**

They will ask why Yahweh did this to this land and what does the heat of this great anger mean.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:24

## Deuteronomy 29:25–26 (id: 168367)

**How will people reply when the generation to come ask why Yahweh did this to the land?**

The people will say that it is because they abandoned the covenant of Yahweh and because they went and worshiped other gods and bowed down to them, gods that they had not known and that he had not given to them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:25–DEU 29:26

## Deuteronomy 29:27 (id: 168368)

**What will the people say was kindled against this land?**

The people will say that the anger of Yahweh was kindled against this land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:27

## Deuteronomy 29:28 (id: 168369)

**What will the people say that Yahweh will do with those who he has uprooted from their land in anger?**

The people will say that Yahweh, in anger, wrath and great fury has thrown them into another land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:28

## Deuteronomy 29:29 (id: 168370)

**To whom do the secret matters belong?**

The secret matters belong to Yahweh alone.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:29

## Deuteronomy 29:29 (#2) (id: 168371)

**To whom do things that are revealed belong?**

the things that are revealed belong forever to the people of Israel and to their descendants so that they may do all the words of the law.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 29:29

## Deuteronomy 30:2–3 (id: 168372)

**What must the people of Israel do so that Yahweh will reverse their captivity and have compassion on them and return and gather them from all the peoples where Yahweh had scattered them?**

They must return to Yahweh and obey his voice, follow all that he has commanded them with all their heart and with all their soul.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 30:2–DEU 30:3

## Deuteronomy 30:4 (id: 168373)

**From where will Yahweh gather Israel’s exiled people?**

Yahweh will gather Israel’s exiled people from the farthest places under the heavens.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 30:4

## Deuteronomy 30:5 (id: 168374)

**To what place will Yahweh bring the exiled Israelites?**

Yahweh will bring them into the land that their forefathers possessed.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 30:5

## Deuteronomy 30:6 (id: 168375)

**Why will Yahweh circumcise the hearts of the Israelites and their descendants?**

Yahweh will circumcise their hearts so that they will love Yahweh their God with all their heart and with all of their soul and so that they could live.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 30:6

## Deuteronomy 30:7 (id: 168376)

**On whom will Yahweh put the curses that had been on the people of Israel?**

Yahweh will put the curses on their enemies and on those who hate the people of Israel and have persecuted them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 30:7

## Deuteronomy 30:8 (id: 168377)

**What will happen when the people of Israel return to Yahweh?**

They will obey the voice of Yahweh and will do all his commandments that Moses commanded them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 30:8

## Deuteronomy 30:9 (id: 168378)

**What will Yahweh do when he makes the people of Israel abundant in all the work of their hand, in the fruit of their body, in the fruit of their cattle and in the fruit of their ground, for prosperity?**

Yahweh will rejoice over the people of Israel as he rejoiced over their fathers.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 30:9

## Deuteronomy 30:10 (id: 168379)

**What do the people of Israel need to do so that Yahweh will rejoice over them?**

The people of Israel need to obey the voice of Yahweh their God, keep his commandments and statures that were written in the book of the law and turn to Yahweh with all their heart and all their soul.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 30:10

## Deuteronomy 30:11 (id: 168380)

**What does Moses say is not too hard for the people or too far for them to reach?**

Moses says that the commandment that he is commanding to the people of Israel is not too hard for them or too far for them to reach.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 30:11

## Deuteronomy 30:14 (id: 168381)

**Where is the word located?**

The word is very near to you, in your mouth and your heart, so that you may do it.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 30:14

## Deuteronomy 30:15 (id: 168382)

**What has Moses placed before the people of Israel?**

Moses has placed life and good, death and evil before the people of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 30:15

## Deuteronomy 30:16 (id: 168383)

**What will happen if the people of Israel obey the decrees of Yahweh their God which Moses commanded them?**

They will live and multiply and Yahweh will bless them in the land where they were going.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 30:16

## Deuteronomy 30:17–18 (id: 168384)

**What will happen to the people if their heart turns away and they do not listen, but instead their heart is drawn away, and if it bows down to other gods and worships them?**

They will surely perish and they will not prolong their days in the land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 30:17–DEU 30:18

## Deuteronomy 30:19 (id: 168385)

**What is Moses asking the people of Israel to choose as he calls heaven and earth to witness?**

Moses is asking the people to choose life so that they and their descendants could live.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 30:19

## Deuteronomy 30:20 (id: 168386)

**Why should the people choose life?**

They should choose life so as to love Yahweh their God, to obey his voice and to cling to him because he is their life and the length of their days.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 30:20

## Deuteronomy 31:1–2 (id: 168387)

**What did Moses tell all Israel about his advancing age?**

He told them that he was now one hundred twenty years old and that he could no more go out and come in.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:1–DEU 31:2

## Deuteronomy 31:2–3 (id: 168388)

**What did Yahweh tell Moses about going over the Jordan?**

He told Moses that he would not be going over Jordan but God would go over Jordan ahead of Moses and would destroy the nations from before Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:2–DEU 31:3

## Deuteronomy 31:3 (id: 168389)

**Who did Yahweh say would go over Jordan instead of Moses?**

Yahweh told Moses that Joshua would go over the Jordan before Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:3

## Deuteronomy 31:4 (id: 168390)

**What had Yahweh done to Sihon and to Og, the kings of the Amorites?**

Yahweh had destroyed them and their land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:4

## Deuteronomy 31:5 (id: 168391)

**What does Yahweh say he will do for Israel when they meet the nations in battle?**

Yahweh says that he will give Israel victory over them when Israel meets them in battle.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:5

## Deuteronomy 31:6 (id: 168392)

**What instruction does Moses give to the Israelites?**

Moses tells them to be strong, of good courage, not to fear and not to be afraid of the nations because Yahweh will go with them and will not fail or forsake them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:6

## Deuteronomy 31:7 (id: 168393)

**What did Moses say to Joshua in the sight of all Israel?**

Moses told Joshua to be strong and of good courage for Joshua would go with the people of Israel into the land that Yahweh swore to their ancestors to give to them and Yahweh will cause them to inherit the land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:7

## Deuteronomy 31:8 (id: 168394)

**What did Moses tell Joshua that Yahweh would do for him?**

Moses told Joshua that Yahweh would go before Joshua, be with him and Yahweh would not fail or abandon Joshua so Joshua should not be afraid or discouraged.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:8

## Deuteronomy 31:9 (id: 168395)

**To whom did Moses give the law after he wrote it?**

Moses gave this law to the priests, the sons of Levi, who carried the box and he also gave copies of it to all the elders of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:9

## Deuteronomy 31:10–11 (id: 168396)

**How often did Moses command the priests to read the law that Moses gave to them?**

Moses commanded the priests to read the law at the end of every seven years, during the Festival of Shelters, in the hearing of all Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:10–DEU 31:11

## Deuteronomy 31:12–13 (id: 168397)

**Why did Moses tell the priests to assemble the men, women, little ones and foreigners.**

Moses told the priests to assemble all the people so that they could hear and learn, and honor Yahweh their God and keep all the words of the law and so that their children could hear and learn to honor Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:12–DEU 31:13

## Deuteronomy 31:13 (id: 168398)

**For how long should the priests read the law to the people of Israel?**

The priests should read the law to the people for as long as they live in the land that they were going over the Jordan to possess it.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:13

## Deuteronomy 31:14 (id: 168399)

**Why did Yahweh tell Moses to call Joshua and present themselves in the tent of meeting?**

Yahweh told Moses to call Joshua to the tent of meeting because the day was coming when Moses must die.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:14

## Deuteronomy 31:14–15 (id: 168400)

**What happen when Moses and Joshua presented themselves in the tent of meeting?**

When Moses and Joshua presented themselves in the tent of meeting, Yahweh appeared in the tent in a pillar of cloud which stood over the door of the tent.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:14–DEU 31:15

## Deuteronomy 31:16 (id: 168401)

**How did Yahweh tell Moses the people would act after Moses went to sleep with his fathers?**

Yahweh told Moses that the people would rise up, act like prostitutes going after the strange gods of the land and that they would forgot Yahweh and break Yahweh’s covenant that he had made with them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:16

## Deuteronomy 31:17 (id: 168402)

**What did Yahweh tell Moses he would do when the people forgot Yahweh’s covenant?**

Yahweh told Moses that on the day the people forsook his covenant, his anger would be kindled against them, he would abandon them, and he would hide his face from them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:17

## Deuteronomy 31:17–18 (id: 168403)

**What did Yahweh tell Moses would happen to the people when Yahweh hid his face from them?**

Yahweh told Moses that many disasters and troubles would find the people and he would hide his face from them because they turned to other gods.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:17–DEU 31:18

## Deuteronomy 31:19 (id: 168404)

**Why did Yahweh tell Moses to write a song and teach it to the people of Israel and put it in their mouths?**

Yahweh told Moses to write a song and teach it to the people so that the song could be a witness for Yahweh against the people of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:19

## Deuteronomy 31:20 (id: 168405)

**What did Yahweh tell Moses the people would do when they were in the land that Yahweh swore to give to their ancestors?**

Yahweh told Moses the people of Israel would turn to other gods, worship them, despise Yahweh and break his covenant.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:20

## Deuteronomy 31:21 (id: 168406)

**What did Yahweh tell Moses the song would do when many evils and troubles found the people of Israel?**

Yahweh told Moses that the song would testify before Israel as a witness and it would not be forgotten out of the mouths of their descendants.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:21

## Deuteronomy 31:21 (#2) (id: 168407)

**What did Yahweh say he knew about the people even before he brought them into the land that he had sworn?**

Yahweh said that he knew the plans that the people were forming today.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:21

## Deuteronomy 31:22 (id: 168408)

**How long did Moses wait before he wrote the song that Yahweh told him to write?**

Moses wrote the song on the same day that Yahweh told him to write it and then he taught it to the people of Israel on that same day.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:22

## Deuteronomy 31:23 (id: 168409)

**What command did Yahweh give to Joshua, the son of Nun?**

Yahweh commanded Joshua to be strong and of good courage.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:23

## Deuteronomy 31:23 (#2) (id: 168410)

**Why did Yahweh command Joshua to be strong and of good courage?**

Yahweh told Joshua to be strong and of good courage because Joshua would bring the people of Israel into the land that Yahweh had sworn to them and Yahweh told Joshua that he would be with Joshua.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:23

## Deuteronomy 31:24–25 (id: 168411)

**To whom did Moses give the words of the law in a book when he had finished writing?**

Moses gave the words of the law to the Levites who carried the Box of the Testimony of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:24–DEU 31:25

## Deuteronomy 31:25–26 (id: 168412)

**What did Moses tell the Levites that they should do with the book of the law when he finished writing it?**

Moses told the Levites to take the book of the law and put is by the side of the Box of the Testimony of Yahweh their God so that it would be there as a witness against them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:25–DEU 31:26

## Deuteronomy 31:27 (id: 168413)

**What did Moses tell the Levites he knew about them even today, while he was still alive?**

Moses told the Levites that he knew about their rebellion and how they had been rebellious against Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:27

## Deuteronomy 31:28 (id: 168414)

**Why does Moses tell the Levites to assemble before him all the elders of their tribes and their officers?**

Moses tells the Levites to assemble the elders and officers so that he could speak his words in their ears and call heaven and earth to witness against them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:28

## Deuteronomy 31:29 (id: 168415)

**What does Moses say that he knows will happen after his death?**

Moses says that after his death the people will utterly corrupt themselves and turn away from the path that Moses had commanded them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:29

## Deuteronomy 31:29 (#2) (id: 168416)

**What does Moses say will happen when the people turn away from the path that Moses had commanded them?**

Moses says that disaster will come on the people in the following days after they turn away from the path that Moses had commanded them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:29

## Deuteronomy 31:29 (#3) (id: 168417)

**Why does Moses say disaster will come to the people?**

Moses says disaster will come because they will do what is evil in the sight of Yahweh, so as to make him angry through the work of their hands.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:29

## Deuteronomy 31:30 (id: 168418)

**What did Moses sing in the ears of all the assembly of Israel?**

Moses sang all the words of the song he had written.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 31:30

## Deuteronomy 32:1 (id: 168419)

**What is Moses asking the heavens and the earth to do?**

Moses is asking the heavens to give ear and let him speak and he is asking the earth to listen to the words of his mouth.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:1

## Deuteronomy 32:2 (id: 168420)

**To what does Moses compare his teaching and his speech?**

Moses compares his teaching to rain and his speech to dew.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:2

## Deuteronomy 32:3 (id: 168421)

**To whom name does Moses proclaim and ascribe greatness?**

Moses proclaims the name of Yahweh and ascribes greatness to God.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:3

## Deuteronomy 32:4 (id: 168422)

**Whose works are perfect and paths are just?**

The work of the Rock is perfect and his paths are just.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:4

## Deuteronomy 32:4 (#2) (id: 168423)

**Who has no iniquity and is just and upright?**

God is faithful, has no iniquity and is just and upright.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:4

## Deuteronomy 32:5–6 (id: 168424)

**What does Moses call the people who have acted wickedly against Yahweh?**

Moses calls them a wicked and crooked generation and foolish and senseless people.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:5–DEU 32:6

## Deuteronomy 32:6 (id: 168425)

**Who does Moses say made and established the people of Israel?**

Moses says that Yahweh made and established the people of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:6

## Deuteronomy 32:7 (id: 168426)

**Of what does Moses say the fathers and elders will be able to remind the Israelites?**

Moses says that the fathers and elders will be able to remind the Israelites about the days of ancient times and the years of many ages past.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:7

## Deuteronomy 32:8 (id: 168427)

**What does Moses say the fathers and elders can tell the people about when the Most High gave the nations their inheritance?**

Moses said the the Most High divided all of mankind, and set the boundaries of the peoples according to the number of the sons of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:8

## Deuteronomy 32:9 (id: 168428)

**What is Yahweh’s portion and who is his apportioned inheritance?**

Yahweh’s portion is his people and Jacob is his apportioned inheritance.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:9

## Deuteronomy 32:10 (id: 168429)

**Where did Yahweh find Jacob (his people)?**

Yahweh found Jacob (his people) in a desert land.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:10

## Deuteronomy 32:10 (#2) (id: 168430)

**What did Yahweh do for his people?**

Yahweh shielded them, cared for them and guarded them as the apple of his eye.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:10

## Deuteronomy 32:11 (id: 168431)

**To what does Moses compare the way that Yahweh took care of his people?**

Moses compares the way that Yahweh took care of his people to an eagle who guards her nest and flutters over her young.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:11

## Deuteronomy 32:12 (id: 168432)

**Who alone led the people of Israel?**

Yahweh alone led the people of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:12

## Deuteronomy 32:15–16 (id: 168433)

**What happened when Jeshurun (Israel) grew fat?**

When Jeshurun (Israel) grew fat and satisfied they abandoned and rejected Yahweh and made him jealous by their strange gods and angered him with their detestable idols.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:15–DEU 32:16

## Deuteronomy 32:17–18 (id: 168434)

**Who did God’s people forget when they continued to rebel?**

They forgot the God who gave them birth.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:17–DEU 32:18

## Deuteronomy 32:19–20 (id: 168435)

**What did Yahweh do because his people provoked him?**

Yahweh rejected his people because they provoked him.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:19–DEU 32:20

## Deuteronomy 32:21 (id: 168436)

**Who will Yahweh use to make Israel envious and angry?**

Yahweh will make them envious by those who are not a people, and will make them angry by a nation that has no understanding.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:21

## Deuteronomy 32:23 (id: 168437)

**What did Yahweh say he would heap on Israel?**

Yahweh said he would heap disasters on them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:23

## Deuteronomy 32:27 (id: 168438)

**What would keep Yahweh from doing all that he threatened to his people?**

Yahweh would keep from doing all that he threatened to his people because their enemies would judge mistakenly and say, “Our hand is exalted.”

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:27

## Deuteronomy 32:28 (id: 168439)

**Of what was Israel lacking as a nation?**

Israel was lacking wisdom and there was no understanding in them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:28

## Deuteronomy 32:29 (id: 168440)

**What does Moses want for Israel to consider?**

Moses wants Israel to consider their coming fate.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:29

## Deuteronomy 32:30–31 (id: 168441)

**How is it that Israel can put their enemies to flight have victory over their enemies?**

Israel can have victory because Yahweh has given them victory and the rock of their enemies is not like the Rock of the Israelites.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:30–DEU 32:31

## Deuteronomy 32:33 (id: 168442)

**How is the wine from the grapes of Sodom and Gomorrah described?**

The wine is described as the poison of serpents and the venom of a snake.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:33

## Deuteronomy 32:33–34 (id: 168443)

**From where does the vine of the enemy come and what are how are the grapes described?**

Their vine comes from Sodom and Gomorrah and their grapes are poisonous and bitter.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:33–DEU 32:34

## Deuteronomy 32:34 (id: 168444)

**How is the plan of Yahweh kept?**

Yahweh’s plan is kept by him and sealed up among his treasures.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:34

## Deuteronomy 32:35 (id: 168445)

**To whom does vengeance and recompense belong?**

Vengeance and recompense belongs to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:35

## Deuteronomy 32:35 (#2) (id: 168446)

**How soon may the day of disaster and the things that are to come happen?**

Disaster is near and the things to come will hurry to happen.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:35

## Deuteronomy 32:36 (id: 168447)

**Who will make decisions for his people and have pity on his servants?**

Yahweh will decide for his people and he will pity his servants.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:36

## Deuteronomy 32:37–38 (id: 168448)

**From whom does help and protection not come for the people of Israel?**

Protection and help does not come from the gods, the rock in whom they took refuge and who ate their sacrifices and drank their drink offerings.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:37–DEU 32:38

## Deuteronomy 32:39 (id: 168449)

**Who does God say is a god besides him and what does God alone say that he can do?**

God says that there is no god besides him and he alone will kill and make alive, wound and heal.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:39

## Deuteronomy 32:40 (id: 168450)

**What does God, who alone is God promise as he lifts up his hand to heaven?**

As he lifts his hand to heaven he promises that as he lives forever, he will act.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:40

## Deuteronomy 32:41 (id: 168451)

**On whom will God bring justice and render vengeance?**

God will bring justice and render vengeance on his enemies and those who hate him.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:41

## Deuteronomy 32:42 (id: 168452)

**From whom does God say that his arrows be drunk with blood and his sword devour flesh?**

God’s arrows will be drunk with the blood of the killed and captives and his sword will devour flesh from the heads of the leaders of the enemy?

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:42

## Deuteronomy 32:43 (id: 168453)

**Who will rejoice with God’s people when he avenges the blood of his servants and brings vengeance on his enemies?**

The nations will rejoice with God’s people.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:43

## Deuteronomy 32:43 (#2) (id: 168454)

**For whom will God make atonement for his land?**

God will make atonement for his land, for his people.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:43

## Deuteronomy 32:44 (id: 168455)

**Who sang all the words of this song in the ears of the people?**

Moses and Joshua sang this song in the ears of the people.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:44

## Deuteronomy 32:46 (id: 168456)

**Why are the people of Israel to fix their minds on the words that Moses has witnessed to them?**

The people are to fix their minds on Moses’ words so they could command their children to keep all the words of this law.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:46

## Deuteronomy 32:48–49 (id: 168457)

**Why did Yahweh tell Moses to go up into the mountains opposite Jericho?**

Yahweh told Moses to go up to the mountains so that he could look at the land of Canaan which Yahweh was giving to the people of Israel as their possession.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:48–DEU 32:49

## Deuteronomy 32:50 (id: 168458)

**What does Yahweh say will happen to Moses on the mountain?**

Yahweh says that Moses will die on the mountain as Aaron had died on Mount Hor and was gathered to his people.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:50

## Deuteronomy 32:50–51 (id: 168459)

**Why did Yahweh say that Moses was going to die on the mountain?**

Moses was going to die on the mountain because he was unfaithful to Yahweh at the waters of Meribah in Kadesh and because Moses did not treat Yahweh with honor and respect among the people of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:50–DEU 32:51

## Deuteronomy 32:52 (id: 168460)

**What did Yahweh say that Moses would see before his death?**

Yahweh said that Moses would see the land that Yahweh was giving to the people of Israel but he would not go there.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 32:52

## Deuteronomy 33:1 (id: 168461)

**When did Moses give this blessing to the people of Israel?**

Moses gave this blessing to the people of Israel before his death.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:1

## Deuteronomy 33:2 (id: 168462)

**How does Moses describe Yahweh?**

Moses describes Yahweh as one who shone out from Mout Paran, came with ten thousands of holy ones, and in his right hand there were flashes of lightning.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:2

## Deuteronomy 33:3 (id: 168463)

**How does Yahweh feel about the people of Israel?**

Yahweh loves the people the people of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:3

## Deuteronomy 33:3 (#2) (id: 168464)

**How do the holy people of Israel respond to the love of Yahweh?**

The holy people of Israel bow down at Yahweh’s feet and receive Yahweh’s words.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:3

## Deuteronomy 33:4 (id: 168465)

**What does Moses say about the law that he commanded to the people?**

Moses calls the law an inheritance for the assembly of Jacob.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:4

## Deuteronomy 33:5 (id: 168466)

**What did Yahweh become when the heads of the people and all the tribes of Israel had gathered?**

Yahweh became king in Jeshurun (Israel).

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:5

## Deuteronomy 33:6 (id: 168467)

**What did Moses say would happen to Reuben?**

Moses said that Reuben would live and not die but his men would be few.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:6

## Deuteronomy 33:7 (id: 168468)

**What is the blessing that Moses gives to Judah?**

Moses asks Yahweh to bless Judah by listening to the voice of Judah, bringing him to his people and fighting for him.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:7

## Deuteronomy 33:8 (id: 168469)

**What does Moses tell the Levites to do in his blessing to them?**

Moses tells the Levites to teach Yahweh’s decrees, put incense and burnt offerings on Yahweh’s altar, to bless Yahweh and accept the work of his hands and to shatter the loins of those who rise up against Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:8

## Deuteronomy 33:10–11 (id: 168470)

**What does Moses tell the Levites to do in his blessing to them?**

Moses tells the Levites to teach Yahweh’s decrees, put incense and burnt offerings on Yahweh’s altar, to bless Yahweh and accept the work of his hands and to shatter the loins of those who rise up against Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:10–DEU 33:11

## Deuteronomy 33:12 (id: 168471)

**What does Moses say about Benjamin’s blessing?**

Yahweh says that Benjamin is the one loved by Yahweh, Yahweh shields him all day long and he lives between Yahweh’s arms.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:12

## Deuteronomy 33:16 (id: 168472)

**Who was prince over his brothers?**

Joseph was prince over his brothers.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:16

## Deuteronomy 33:17 (id: 168473)

**What will the ten thousands of Ephraim and the thousands of Manasseh do?**

They will push the peoples, all of them, to the ends of the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:17

## Deuteronomy 33:18–19 (id: 168474)

**From where does Moses say the blessings of Zebulun and Issachar will come?**

The blessings of Zebulun and Issachar will come from the mountains, the abundance of the seas and from the sand hidden in the seashore.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:18–DEU 33:19

## Deuteronomy 33:20 (id: 168475)

**How does Moses say Gad will live as his territory is enlarged?**

Gad will live there like a lioness and tear off an arm or a head.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:20

## Deuteronomy 33:21 (id: 168476)

**What did Gad carry out for Yahweh?**

Gad carried out the justice of Yahweh and his decrees with Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:21

## Deuteronomy 33:22 (id: 168477)

**How did Moses describe Dan?**

Moses described Dan as a lion cub that leaps out from Bashan.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:22

## Deuteronomy 33:23 (id: 168478)

**What land did Moses say Naphtali will take?**

Naphtali will take possession of the land to the west and south.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:23

## Deuteronomy 33:24–25 (id: 168479)

**What does Moses say about the blessing for Asher?**

Moses says that Asher will be more blessed than the other sons, that he might dip his foot in olive oil and that he will be secure for all his day.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:24–DEU 33:25

## Deuteronomy 33:27 (id: 168480)

**What did Moses say God will do to Jeshurun’s (Israel’s) enemies?**

Moses said God would thrust out Jeshurun’s (Israel’s) enemies from before them and that God will say, “Destroy!”

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:27

## Deuteronomy 33:28 (id: 168481)

**How will Jacob’s descendants live?**

Jacob’s descendants will live safely and securely in a land of grain and new wine.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:28

## Deuteronomy 33:29 (id: 168482)

**How does Moses describing Israel?**

Moses describes Israel as blessed and a people saved by Yahweh, whose enemies will come trembling to them.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 33:29

## Deuteronomy 34:1–3 (id: 168483)

**From where was Moses shown all the lands that the tribes of Israel would possess?**

Moses was shown all the land that the tribes of Israel would posses from the top of Pisgah.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 34:1–DEU 34:3

## Deuteronomy 34:4 (id: 168484)

**What did Yahweh allow Moses to see before he died?**

Yahweh allowed Moses to see the land that Yahweh swore to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 34:4

## Deuteronomy 34:6 (id: 168485)

**Where did Moses die and where did Yahweh bury Moses?**

Moses died in the land of Moab and Yahweh buried him in the valley in the land of Moab opposite Beth Peor.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 34:6

## Deuteronomy 34:7 (id: 168486)

**What was Moses physical condition when he died at one hundred twenty years of age?**

When Moses died he was still strong and could see well.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 34:7

## Deuteronomy 34:8 (id: 168487)

**How long did the people of Israel mourn for Moses?**

The people mourned for Moses for thirty days.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 34:8

## Deuteronomy 34:9 (id: 168488)

**Why did the people of Israel listen to Joshua and do what Yahweh had commanded Moses?**

The people of Israel listened to Joshua because Joshua was full of the spirit of wisdom, and Moses had laid his hands on him.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 34:9

## Deuteronomy 34:10 (id: 168489)

**How was Moses known by Yahweh?**

Yahweh knew Moses face to face.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 34:10

## Deuteronomy 34:10–12 (id: 168490)

**Has there ever been a prophet like Moses in Israel?**

There has never been any prophet like Moses in all of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** DEU 34:10–DEU 34:12

