# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Ruth 1:1 (id: 179054)

**During what period of time in Jewish history did the story of Ruth occur?**

It occurred in the days when the judges ruled.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 1:1

## Ruth 1:1 (#2) (id: 179055)

**Why did Elimelek move to Moab with his family?**

He moved because there was a famine in the land of Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 1:1

## Ruth 1:3 (id: 179056)

**What happened to Elimelek in Moab?**

He died, leaving Naomi a widow.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 1:3

## Ruth 1:5 (id: 179057)

**What happened to Naomi’s children in Moab?**

They died, leaving behind two daughters\-in\-law for Naomi.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 1:5

## Ruth 1:6 (id: 179058)

**Why did Naomi decide to return to Judah?**

She heard that Yahweh had given the people of Judah food.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 1:6

## Ruth 1:8 (id: 179059)

**Where did Naomi want her two daughters\-in\-law to go?**

She wanted them to return to their mothers’ houses.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 1:8

## Ruth 1:9 (id: 179060)

**What did Naomi want her two daughters\-in\-law to find?**

She wanted them to find other husbands.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 1:9

## Ruth 1:13 (id: 179061)

**Who did Naomi believe was the source of her trouble?**

She believed that Yahweh was against her.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 1:13

## Ruth 1:16 (id: 179062)

**When Ruth stayed with Naomi, what promise did Ruth make to Naomi?**

She said, “For I will go to the place where you go, and I will stay in the place where you stay. Your people are my people, and your God is my God.”

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 1:16

## Ruth 1:17 (id: 179063)

**How long did Ruth say she would remain with Naomi?**

She said she would remain with Naomi until they died. She said, "In the place where you die, I will die, and there I will be buried. May Yahweh do thus to me, and thus may he add, if death separates between me and between you."

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 1:17

## Ruth 1:19 (id: 179064)

**To which town did Naomi return?**

She returned to Bethlehem.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 1:19

## Ruth 1:20 (id: 179065)

**What name did Naomi want to be called and why?**

She asked to be called “Mara” (which means “bitter”), because she believed that Yahweh had dealt bitterly with her.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 1:20

## Ruth 1:22 (id: 179066)

**What time of the year did Naomi and Ruth arrive in Bethlehem?**

They arrived at the beginning of the barley harvest.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 1:22

## Ruth 2:1 (id: 179067)

**What was the relationship between Boaz and Naomi’s dead husband?**

Boaz was a relative of Naomi’s husband.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 2:1

## Ruth 2:2 (id: 179068)

**As Ruth went out to glean for the first time, who did Ruth say she would follow while gleaning grain?**

She would follow anyone in whose eyes she found favor.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 2:2

## Ruth 2:4 (id: 179069)

**What greeting did Boaz give to his workers?**

He said, “Yahweh be with you.”

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 2:4

## Ruth 2:5 (id: 179070)

**What did Boaz want to know about Ruth?**

He wanted to know to whom she belonged.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 2:5

## Ruth 2:8 (id: 179071)

**What instructions did Boaz give Ruth concerning her gleaning?**

He told Ruth not to leave his field, but to stay and work in his field with his female workers.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 2:8

## Ruth 2:10 (id: 179072)

**After receiving the favorable instructions, what question did Ruth ask Boaz?**

She asked Boaz why she had found favor in his sight.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 2:10

## Ruth 2:11 (id: 179073)

**What good report had Boaz heard about Ruth?**

He had heard that Ruth had left her home to follow Naomi.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 2:11

## Ruth 2:12 (id: 179074)

**Under whose wings did Boaz say Ruth had found refuge?**

He said that Ruth had found refuge under Yahweh’s wings.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 2:12

## Ruth 2:15 (id: 179075)

**What additional favor did Boaz show to Ruth when they returned to work after mealtime?**

He allowed Ruth to glean among the bundles.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 2:15

## Ruth 2:16 (id: 179076)

**What did Boaz tell his workers to do for Ruth?**

He commanded the reapers to pull out grain for Ruth from the bundles.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 2:16

## Ruth 2:19 (id: 179077)

**When Naomi saw the large amount of grain that Ruth brought back, what question did she ask Ruth?**

She asked where Ruth had gleaned that day.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 2:19

## Ruth 2:20 (id: 179078)

**What blessing did Naomi wish for Boaz when she heard that Boaz had helped Ruth?**

She said, “May he be blessed by Yahweh”

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 2:20

## Ruth 2:22 (id: 179079)

**Why did Naomi think it was good for Ruth to work with Boaz’s women workers?**

By doing that, Ruth would not come to harm in any other field.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 2:22

## Ruth 2:23 (id: 179080)

**What did Ruth do during the rest of the barley harvest?**

She gleaned with Boaz’s workers and lived with her mother\-in\-law.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 2:23

## Ruth 3:1 (id: 179081)

**What did Naomi say her desire was for Ruth?**

She desired that Ruth have a place of rest, meaning to have a person who would treat her well.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 3:1

## Ruth 3:3 (id: 179082)

**What did Naomi tell Ruth to do before going down to the threshing floor?**

She told her to wash and anoint herself and to put on her cloak.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 3:3

## Ruth 3:4 (id: 179083)

**What was Ruth to do when she went to where Boaz was sleeping?**

She was to uncover his feet and to lie down there.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 3:4

## Ruth 3:5 (id: 179084)

**What was Ruth’s attitude toward Naomi’s instructions?**

She said she would do everything Naomi told her to do.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 3:5

## Ruth 3:8 (id: 179085)

**At midnight, what was Boaz startled to find?**

He was startled to find that a woman lay at his feet!

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 3:8

## Ruth 3:9 (id: 179086)

**What was Ruth’s request to Boaz?**

She asked Boaz to spread his cloak over her, for he was a kinsman\-redeemer.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 3:9

## Ruth 3:10 (id: 179087)

**Why did Boaz ask a blessing from Yahweh for Ruth?**

Boaz blessed Ruth because she had come to Boaz, her kinsman\-redeemer, rather than pursuing younger men.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 3:10

## Ruth 3:11 (id: 179088)

**What did Boaz say he would do about Ruth’s request?**

He said that he would do all that she asked.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 3:11

## Ruth 3:12 (id: 179089)

**What obstacle prevented Boaz from immediately performing the part of a kinsman for Ruth?**

There was another kinsman\-redeemer nearer in relationship than Boaz.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 3:12

## Ruth 3:13 (id: 179090)

**How was Boaz going to determine who would act as kinsman for Ruth?**

If the nearest kinsman\-redeemer was willing to redeem Ruth, then Boaz would let him do that. But if he was not willing, then Boaz would be the kinsman\-redeemer.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 3:13

## Ruth 3:14 (id: 179091)

**Why did Ruth leave the threshing floor early before anyone could recognize her?**

Boaz did not want people to know that she had been with him overnight at the threshing floor.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 3:14

## Ruth 3:15 (id: 179092)

**What gift did Boaz give Ruth before she left the threshing floor?**

He gave her six large measures of barley.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 3:15

## Ruth 3:18 (id: 179093)

**Naomi was sure that Boaz would resolve the issue by what time?**

He would resolve it by the end of that same day.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 3:18

## Ruth 4:1 (id: 179094)

**Where did Boaz go to resolve the issue of who would be the kinsman\-redeemer for Ruth?**

He went to the gate of the city.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 4:1

## Ruth 4:2 (id: 179095)

**Who did Boaz ask to sit as witnesses?**

He asked ten men who were from the elders of the city.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 4:2

## Ruth 4:3 (id: 179096)

**What did Boaz first speak about to the other kinsman?**

He told him that Naomi was selling the piece of land that had been owned by Elimelek.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 4:3

## Ruth 4:4 (id: 179097)

**What did Boaz suggest the other kinsman do about the parcel of land?**

Boaz suggested that the other kinsman could redeem it.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 4:4

## Ruth 4:4 (#2) (id: 179098)

**What was the other kinsman’s answer?**

He said he would redeem it.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 4:4

## Ruth 4:5 (id: 179099)

**About what additional requirement did Boaz then tell the other kinsman?**

He told him that he would also have to marry Ruth in order to raise up the name of the dead man over his inheritance.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 4:5

## Ruth 4:6 (id: 179100)

**What was the other kinsman’s answer when he learned that he would have to marry Ruth?**

He said he could not redeem the land.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 4:6

## Ruth 4:6 (#2) (id: 179101)

**Why did the other kinsman say he could not be the redeemer?**

He said that it would damage his own inheritance.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 4:6

## Ruth 4:8 (id: 179102)

**What did the other kinsman do to show that he agreed that Boaz should be the redeemer?**

He took off his sandal and gave it to him in front of witnesses.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 4:8

## Ruth 4:9 (id: 179103)

**What was the first agreement that Boaz said the elders witnessed?**

They witnessed that Boaz bought all the land that had belonged to Elimelek.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 4:9

## Ruth 4:10 (id: 179104)

**What was the second agreement that Boaz said the elders had witnessed?**

They had witnessed that Boaz acquired Ruth as his wife.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 4:10

## Ruth 4:12 (id: 179105)

**What blessing did the people desire for Boaz?**

They desired that Yahweh would give him offspring through Ruth, just as Tamar bore a son to Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 4:12

## Ruth 4:15 (id: 179106)

**Why did the women say that Ruth was better for Naomi than seven sons?**

They said this because of Ruth's love for Naomi, and because Ruth had given birth to a grandson for Naomi.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 4:15

## Ruth 4:16 (id: 179107)

**What was Naomi’s relationship with Ruth’s son?**

Naomi became his nurse or caregiver.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 4:16

## Ruth 4:17 (id: 179108)

**What was Ruth’s son’s name?**

His name was Obed.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 4:17

## Ruth 4:17 (#2) (id: 179109)

**Of whom was Obed the father and grandfather?**

Obed was the father of Jesse and the grandfather of David.

* **Associated Passages:** RUT 4:17

