# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## 1 Samuel 1:1–2 (id: 165322)

**Who were the two wives of Elkanah?**

The wives of Elkanah were Hannah and Peninnah.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 1:1–1SA 1:2

## 1 Samuel 1:2 (id: 165323)

**How many children did Hannah have?**

Hannah had no children.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 1:2

## 1 Samuel 1:5 (id: 165324)

**Why did Elkanah give a double portion to Hannah?**

He gave a double portion to Hannah because he loved her.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 1:5

## 1 Samuel 1:6 (id: 165325)

**Why did Hannah’s rival provoke her?**

She provoked Hannah in order to irritate her, beause Yahweh had closed her womb.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 1:6

## 1 Samuel 1:9–10 (id: 165326)

**What did Hannah do because she was so deeply distress about not having children?**

She went to the house of Yahweh and prayed and wept bitterly.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 1:9–1SA 1:10

## 1 Samuel 1:11 (id: 165327)

**What did Hannah vow to Yahweh?**

Hannah vowed that if Yahweh would give her a son, she would give him to Yahweh and no razor would touch his head.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 1:11

## 1 Samuel 1:12–14 (id: 165328)

**Because Hannah was speaking to Yahweh from her heart, what did Eli, the priest, think about her actions?**

Eli saw Hannah’s lips moving but didn’t hear her voice, so he thought she was drunk from wine.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 1:12–1SA 1:14

## 1 Samuel 1:15–16 (id: 165329)

**What did Hannah assure Eli she was doing?**

Hannah assured Eli that she was not drunk but was speaking to Yahweh from her heart.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 1:15–1SA 1:16

## 1 Samuel 1:17–18 (id: 165330)

**What did Eli say to Hannah that caused her to go on her way, eat and no longer feel sad?**

Eli told her to go in peace and asked the God of Israel to grant her the request she was asking him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 1:17–1SA 1:18

## 1 Samuel 1:20 (id: 165331)

**When Hannah conceived and gave birth to a son, what did she name him?**

Hannah named her son Samuel because she asked for him from Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 1:20

## 1 Samuel 1:21–23 (id: 165332)

**Why did Hannah not go with her husband to the temple for the yearly sacrifice?**

Because she was still nursing her son.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 1:21–1SA 1:23

## 1 Samuel 1:24–25 (id: 165333)

**What did Hannah take with her, along with her son, to the house of Yahweh to give to Eli the priest?**

Hannah took a sacrifice of a three year old bull, one ephah of meal, and a bottle of wine to give to the priest.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 1:24–1SA 1:25

## 1 Samuel 1:26–28 (id: 165334)

**What did Hannah give Yahweh?**

Hannah gave her son to Yahweh for as long as he would live.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 1:26–1SA 1:28

## 1 Samuel 2:1 (id: 165335)

**Why did Hannah speak boldly over her enemies?**

Hannah spoke boldly because she rejoices in Yahweh’s salvation.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:1

## 1 Samuel 2:3 (id: 165336)

**Why does Hannah say that we should not boast or speak arrogantly?**

We should not boast or speak arrogantly because Yahweh is a God of knowledge and by him all actions are weighed.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:3

## 1 Samuel 2:5 (id: 165337)

**In Hannah’s song, who is the one who is filled with sorrow?**

The woman who has many children is filled with sorrow.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:5

## 1 Samuel 2:6 (id: 165338)

**Who decides death and life, if one goes down to Sheol or is raised up?**

Yahweh is the one who decides death and life, and Sheol or raised up.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:6

## 1 Samuel 2:7 (id: 165339)

**Who makes the poor and the rich?**

Yahweh makes the poor, and he makes the rich.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:7

## 1 Samuel 2:8 (id: 165340)

**Who raises up the poor and lifts the needy to sit in the seat of honor?**

Yahweh raises them up to sit at the seat of honor.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:8

## 1 Samuel 2:9 (id: 165341)

**Who does Hannah say will guard the feet of his faithful people and silence the wicked in darkness?**

Yahweh will guard their feet and silence the wicked.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:9

## 1 Samuel 2:10 (id: 165342)

**Who judges the ends of the earth and gives strength to his king?**

Yahweh judges the ends of the earth and gives strength to his king.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:10

## 1 Samuel 2:11 (id: 165343)

**What child served Yahweh in the presence of Eli the priest?**

Samuel served Yahweh in the presence of Eli the priest.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:11

## 1 Samuel 2:12 (id: 165344)

**Whose sons were evil men?**

Eli the priest’s sons were evil men.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:12

## 1 Samuel 2:13–14 (id: 165345)

**What was the custom of the priests with the people at the time of sacrifice?**

Their custom was for the priests’ servant come with a three pronged fork to get the meat for the priest to take for himself.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:13–1SA 2:14

## 1 Samuel 2:15–16 (id: 165346)

**What evil thing did the priest’s sons instruct their servants?**

Instead of eating the boiled meat, Eli’s sons instructed their servants tell the people they only ate raw meat.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:15–1SA 2:16

## 1 Samuel 2:17 (id: 165347)

**Why was the sin of Eli’s sons so great?**

Their sin was great before Yahweh because they despised Yahweh’s offering.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:17

## 1 Samuel 2:18–19 (id: 165348)

**What would Samuel’s mother make for him form year to year to cloth him?**

She world make him a linen ephod robe.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:18–1SA 2:19

## 1 Samuel 2:20 (id: 165349)

**How would Eli bless Elkanah and his wife?**

Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife by praying for them to have more children by Hannah.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:20

## 1 Samuel 2:21 (id: 165350)

**What was Yahweh’s response to Eli’s prayer for Samuel’s parents to have more children?**

Yahweh once more helped Hannah and she bore three more sons and two daughters.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:21

## 1 Samuel 2:23–24 (id: 165351)

**What did Eli say to his sons as he was getting very old?**

Eli told his sons that they were doing evil things and they caused Yahweh’s people to disobey.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:23–1SA 2:24

## 1 Samuel 2:25 (id: 165352)

**Why did Eli’s sons not listen to his voice?**

Eli’s sons did not listen to his voice because Yahweh intended to kill them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:25

## 1 Samuel 2:26 (id: 165353)

**Who grew up and increased in favor with Yahweh and also with men?**

Samuel grew up and increased in favor with Yahweh and with men.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:26

## 1 Samuel 2:27–28 (id: 165354)

**Who told Eli that Yahweh chose Eli’s ancestors out of all the tribes of Israel to be Yahweh’s priest?**

A man of God told Eli that Yahweh chose Eli’s ancestors.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:27–1SA 2:28

## 1 Samuel 2:29 (id: 165355)

**How had Eli scorned Yahweh’s sacrifices and offerings?**

He scorned the sacrifices and offerings by honoring his sons above Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:29

## 1 Samuel 2:33 (id: 165356)

**What did Yahweh tell Eli would happen to the men in his family?**

Yahweh told Eli that all the men born in Eli’s family would die.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:33

## 1 Samuel 2:34 (id: 165357)

**What did Yahweh say would be a sign that all the men in Eli’s family would die?**

Both of Eli’s sons would die on the same day.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:34

## 1 Samuel 2:35 (id: 165358)

**Who will walk before Yahweh’s anointed king forever?**

A faithful priest who Yahweh raises up will walk before Yahweh’s anointed king forever.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:35

## 1 Samuel 2:35 (#2) (id: 165359)

**Why will everyone in Eli’s family come and bow down to the faithful priest?**

They will ask him for a position as a priest so that they can have food to eat.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 2:35

## 1 Samuel 3:2–4 (id: 165360)

**What was Samuel’s reply when he heard Yahweh call to him as he was lying down in his bed?**

Samuel replied, “Here I am.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 3:2–1SA 3:4

## 1 Samuel 3:5 (id: 165361)

**What did Eli tell Samuel to do when Samuel ran to him?**

Eli said that he did not call Samuel, and told him to go lie down again.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 3:5

## 1 Samuel 3:7 (id: 165362)

**What had never been revealed to Samuel?**

A message from Yahweh had never been revealed to Samuel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 3:7

## 1 Samuel 3:8 (id: 165363)

**What did Eli realize after the third time that Samuel came to him?**

Eli realized that Yahweh had called the boy.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 3:8

## 1 Samuel 3:9 (id: 165364)

**What did Eli tell Samuel to say if Yahweh called him again?**

Eli told Samuel to say, “Speak, for your servant is listening.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 3:9

## 1 Samuel 3:11 (id: 165365)

**What did Yahweh say would happen to the ears of everyone when they heard what Yahweh was going to do?**

Yahweh said the ears of everyone that hears what he is about to do will shake.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 3:11

## 1 Samuel 3:13 (id: 165366)

**What did Eli’s sons bring upon themselves?**

Eli’s sons brought a curse upon themselves..

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 3:13

## 1 Samuel 3:14 (id: 165367)

**What would never be atoned for by sacrifice or offering?**

The sins of Eli’s house would never be atoned for by sacrifice or offering.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 3:14

## 1 Samuel 3:15 (id: 165368)

**What was Samuel afraid to do in the morning after he opened the doors of the house of Yahweh?**

He was afraid to tell Eli about the vision from Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 3:15

## 1 Samuel 3:17 (id: 165369)

**What did Samuel do after Eli told him that he must not hide from him the words that Yahweh had spoken?**

Samuel told him everything and hid nothing from Eli.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 3:17

## 1 Samuel 3:20 (id: 165370)

**What did all Israel from Dan to Beersheba know about Samuel?**

All Israel knew that Samuel was appointed to be a prophet of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 3:20

## 1 Samuel 4:1–2 (id: 165371)

**What was the result of the battle between Israel and the Philistines?**

Israel was defeated by the Philistines.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 4:1–1SA 4:2

## 1 Samuel 4:3 (id: 165372)

**What did the elders of Israel decide to do so that they could be kept safe from the power of their enemies?**

The elders decided that they should bring the ark of the testimony of Yahweh to be with them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 4:3

## 1 Samuel 4:4 (id: 165373)

**Who was with the ark of the testimony of Yahweh of hosts?**

The two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas were there with the ark.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 4:4

## 1 Samuel 4:5–6 (id: 165374)

**What did the Philistines wonder when they heard the great shout of all the people of Israel?**

The Philistines wondered what the loud shouting in the camp of the Hebrews meant.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 4:5–1SA 4:6

## 1 Samuel 4:7 (id: 165375)

**Who did the Philistines say had come into the camp of the Hebrews?**

The Philistines said that God had come into the camp of the Hebrews.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 4:7

## 1 Samuel 4:8 (id: 165376)

**With what did the Philistines say that God had attacked the Egyptians in the wilderness?**

They said that God had attacked the Egyptians with many different kinds of plagues.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 4:8

## 1 Samuel 4:10–11 (id: 165377)

**What happened to the two sons of Eli when the Philistines fought and defeated Israel?**

The two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, died.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 4:10–1SA 4:11

## 1 Samuel 4:12–13 (id: 165378)

**What did the whole city do when the man from the battle line entered the city and told the news?**

When the man told the news, the whole city cried out.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 4:12–1SA 4:13

## 1 Samuel 4:14 (id: 165379)

**What question did Eli ask when he heard the noise of the outcry of the city?**

Eli asked what was the meaning of the uproar.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 4:14

## 1 Samuel 4:16–17 (id: 165380)

**What did the man tell Eli had happened to his sons and to the ark of God when Israel was defeated by the Philistines?**

The man told Eli that this two sons were dead and the ark of God had been taken.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 4:16–1SA 4:17

## 1 Samuel 4:18 (id: 165381)

**What was the injury that took Eli’s life when he fell over backward from his seat by the side of the gate?**

Eli’s neck was broken and he died.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 4:18

## 1 Samuel 4:19 (id: 165382)

**What happened when Phinehas’ pregnant wife heard that the ark was captured and her father\-in\-law and husband were dead?**

Phinehas’ wife knelt down and gave birth, but her labor pains overwhelmed her.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 4:19

## 1 Samuel 4:21–22 (id: 165383)

**What name did Phinehas’ wife give to the baby and why did she give him that name?**

She named the baby Ichabod because the glory had gone away from Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 4:21–1SA 4:22

## 1 Samuel 5:1–3 (id: 165384)

**In what position did the people find the idol Dagon the next day after the Philistines brought the ark of God into the house of Dagon?**

Dagon was found fallen face down on the ground before the ark of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 5:1–1SA 5:3

## 1 Samuel 5:4 (id: 165385)

**What remained of the idol Dagon the next morning after they had set him back in his place before the ark?**

Only the trunk of Dagon remained and his head and hands were lying cut off in the doorway.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 5:4

## 1 Samuel 5:6–7 (id: 165386)

**Why did the men of Ashdod say that the ark should not stay with them?**

The hand of the God of Israel was hard against them and against Dagon their god.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 5:6–1SA 5:7

## 1 Samuel 5:8 (id: 165387)

**To what place did the Philistines move the ark of the God of Israel?**

The Philistines moved the ark to Gath.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 5:8

## 1 Samuel 5:9 (id: 165388)

**With what did Yahweh afflict the men of the city of Gath?**

Yahweh afflicted them with tumors.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 5:9

## 1 Samuel 5:10 (id: 165389)

**What did the people of Ekron say that the God of Israel would do to them because the ark was sent to their city?**

They said that the God of Israel would kill them and their people.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 5:10

## 1 Samuel 5:11 (id: 165390)

**To what place did the people of Ekron request the rulers to send the ark?**

They requested that the ark be sent to its own place.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 5:11

## 1 Samuel 5:12 (id: 165391)

**To what place did the cry of the men of the city go?**

The cry of the men of the city went up to the heavens.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 5:12

## 1 Samuel 6:1 (id: 165392)

**For what period of time was the ark of Yahweh in the Philistine’s country?**

The ark was in the country of the Philistines for seven months.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 6:1

## 1 Samuel 6:2 (id: 165393)

**Who did the Philistines call to ask advice on how the ark of Yahweh should be sent back to its own country?**

They called for the priests and the diviners to tell them how to send the ark back to its own country.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 6:2

## 1 Samuel 6:3–4 (id: 165394)

**What did the priests and diviners tell the Philistine people to send as a gift to the God of Israel as a guilt offering?**

They told the Philistines to send five golden tumors and five golden mice.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 6:3–1SA 6:4

## 1 Samuel 6:6 (id: 165395)

**Why did the priests and diviners say God had dealt severely with the Egyptians and Pharaoh?**

God had dealt severely with the Egyptians and Pharaoh because they had hardened their hearts.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 6:6

## 1 Samuel 6:7 (id: 165396)

**What animals did the priests and diviners tell the Philistines to tie to the cart on which they were to place the ark of Yahweh?**

They told the Philistines to tie two nursing cows to the cart.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 6:7

## 1 Samuel 6:9 (id: 165397)

**How would the Philistines know that it was Yahweh who had executed the great disaster on them?**

The Philistines would know it if the cows pulling the cart went on their own to Beth Shemesh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 6:9

## 1 Samuel 6:10–12 (id: 165398)

**Where did the nursing cows go with the cart carrying the ark and the box containing the golden mice and castings of tumors?**

The cows went straight in the direction of Beth Shemesh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 6:10–1SA 6:12

## 1 Samuel 6:13 (id: 165399)

**What were the people of Beth Shemesh doing when they lifted up their eyes and saw the ark?**

They were harvesting their wheat in the valley.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 6:13

## 1 Samuel 6:14 (id: 165400)

**What did the people of Beth Shemesh do with the cows that had pulled the cart?**

They offered the cows as a burnt offering to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 6:14

## 1 Samuel 6:15 (id: 165401)

**Who took down the ark of Yahweh and the box that was with it?**

The Levites took down the ark of Yahweh and the box that was with it.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 6:15

## 1 Samuel 6:16 (id: 165402)

**What did the five rulers of the Philistines do when they saw what the men of Beth Shemesh had done?**

They returned that day to Ekron.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 6:16

## 1 Samuel 6:17–18 (id: 165403)

**What was the significance of the number of five golden tumors and the number of five golden mice?**

The number of the golden tumors and the golden mice were the same as the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five rulers.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 6:17–1SA 6:18

## 1 Samuel 6:19 (id: 165404)

**Why did Yahweh kill seventy of the men of Beth Shemesh?**

Yahweh killed them because they had looked into his ark.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 6:19

## 1 Samuel 6:21 (id: 165405)

**What did the messengers ask the inhabitants of Kiriath Jearim to do about the ark that the Philistines had brought back?**

The messengers asked the inhabitants of Kiriath Jearim to come down and take the ark back with them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 6:21

## 1 Samuel 7:1 (id: 165406)

**What did the men of Kiriath Jearim do to Abinadab’s son Eleazar so that he could keep the ark of Yahweh?**

They consecrated him to keep the ark of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 7:1

## 1 Samuel 7:2 (id: 165407)

**What did all the house of Israel do during the twenty years that the ark remained in Kiriath Jearim?**

They lamented during that time and wished to turn to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 7:2

## 1 Samuel 7:3–4 (id: 165408)

**What did the people of Israel need to remove from among them in order for Yahweh to rescue them from the hand of the Philistines?**

They needed to remove the foreign gods and Ashtaroth from among them and worship Yahweh only.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 7:3–1SA 7:4

## 1 Samuel 7:5–6 (id: 165409)

**What did the people of Israel admit that they had done when they gathered together at Mitzpah and poured water out before Yahweh?**

They admitted that they had sinned against Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 7:5–1SA 7:6

## 1 Samuel 7:7–8 (id: 165410)

**What did the people of Israel hear about the Philistines that made them afraid and made them ask Samuel to call out to Yahweh for them?**

They heard that the rulers of the Philistines attacked Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 7:7–1SA 7:8

## 1 Samuel 7:9 (id: 165411)

**What did Yahweh do when Samuel took a nursing lamb, offered it as a whole burnt offering to Yahweh and cried out to Yahweh?**

He answered Samuel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 7:9

## 1 Samuel 7:10 (id: 165412)

**What was it that Yahweh did that threw the Philistines into confusion as they drew near to attack Israel?**

Yahweh thundered with a loud sound that day against the Philistines.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 7:10

## 1 Samuel 7:12 (id: 165413)

**What did Samuel set up between Mizpah and Shen as a remembrance that Yahweh had helped them?**

Samuel took a stone and set it up.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 7:12

## 1 Samuel 7:14 (id: 165414)

**What happened to the towns that the Philistines had taken from Israel?**

They were restored to Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 7:14

## 1 Samuel 7:15–17 (id: 165415)

**What did Samuel do as he went on a circuit to Bethel, Gilgal, Mizpah and back to Raman?**

Samuel decided disputes for Israel in all these places.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 7:15–1SA 7:17

## 1 Samuel 8:1–3 (id: 165416)

**In what ways did the two sons of Samuel, who were judges, not walk in the ways of their father?**

They chased after dishonest gain, taking bribes and perverting justice.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 8:1–1SA 8:3

## 1 Samuel 8:4–5 (id: 165417)

**What the request did the elders of Israel make of Samuel?**

They asked Samuel to appoint for them a king to judge them like all the nations, since he was old and his sons did not walk in his ways.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 8:4–1SA 8:5

## 1 Samuel 8:6 (id: 165418)

**What did Samuel do when he was displeased by the request from the elders of Israel to give them a king?**

Samuel prayed to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 8:6

## 1 Samuel 8:7 (id: 165419)

**Why did Yahweh tell Samuel to obey the voice of the people in everything they would say to him?**

Yahweh told Samuel to obey their voice because they were not rejecting Samuel, but they were rejected Yahweh from being king over them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 8:7

## 1 Samuel 8:8–9 (id: 165420)

**What was the warning which Yahweh told Samuel to give to the people of Israel?**

Yahweh told Samuel to solemnly warn the people of Israel about the way in which the king would rule over them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 8:8–1SA 8:9

## 1 Samuel 8:10–12 (id: 165421)

**What was the warning which Samuel gave to the people of Israel about the way in which the king would take their sons from them?**

Samuel warned the people that the king would take their sons to be horsemen and soldiers, make them plow the ground and reap the harvest, and use others to make weapons and implements of war.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 8:10–1SA 8:12

## 1 Samuel 8:13–15 (id: 165422)

**What was the warning which Samuel gave to the people of Israel about what the king would do with their daughters?**

Samuel warned them that the king would take their daughters to be perfumers, cooks, and bakers.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 8:13–1SA 8:15

## 1 Samuel 8:16–17 (id: 165423)

**What was the warning which Samuel gave to the people of Israel about what the king would do with their servants, young men, and animals?**

Samuel warned them that the king would take their servants, the best of their young men and donkeys, a tenth of their flocks, and make them slaves.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 8:16–1SA 8:17

## 1 Samuel 8:18 (id: 165424)

**What did Samuel warn the people of Israel would happen when they would cry out because of the king which they had chosen for themselves?**

Samuel said that when they would cry out to Yahweh, Yahweh would not answer them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 8:18

## 1 Samuel 8:19–20 (id: 165425)

**How did the people of Israel respond to the warnings from Samuel?**

The people insisted that they still wanted a king over them so they could be like the other nations and have a king to judge them and fight their battles.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 8:19–1SA 8:20

## 1 Samuel 8:21–22 (id: 165426)

**What was the response of Yahweh when Samuel repeated the words of the people into his ears?**

Yahweh still told Samuel to obey the voice of the people and give them a king.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 8:21–1SA 8:22

## 1 Samuel 9:1–2 (id: 165427)

**What were the outstanding physical features of Saul, the son of Kish?**

Saul was a handsome young man who was taller from his shoulders upward than any of the other people.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 9:1–1SA 9:2

## 1 Samuel 9:3–4 (id: 165428)

**What was the outcome when Kish asked his son Saul to go and look for their lost donkeys?**

Saul took one of the servants and passed through many places without finding the lost donkeys.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 9:3–1SA 9:4

## 1 Samuel 9:5 (id: 165429)

**What did Saul tell his servant the should do when they came to the land of Zuph?**

Saul told his servant that they should go back or his father would worry more about them than the donkeys.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 9:5

## 1 Samuel 9:6 (id: 165430)

**What different idea did the servant present to Saul?**

The servant told Saul that they should seek after a man of God in the city who might be able to tell them where they should go on their journey.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 9:6

## 1 Samuel 9:7–8 (id: 165431)

**What did the servant have in his possession to give to the man of God so he would tell them which way to go?**

The servant had with him a fourth of a shekel of silver to give to the man of God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 9:7–1SA 9:8

## 1 Samuel 9:9–11 (id: 165432)

**What did Saul and his servant inquire of the young women who were coming out to draw water?**

Saul and his servant asked if the seer was in the city so they could seek the knowledge of God’s will.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 9:9–1SA 9:11

## 1 Samuel 9:12–13 (id: 165433)

**Why was the seer coming to the city on that day?**

The seer was coming to the city on that day because the people were sacrificing at the high place and the seer would bless the sacrifice.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 9:12–1SA 9:13

## 1 Samuel 9:15–16 (id: 165434)

**What did Yahweh reveal to Samuel about Saul’s role in Israel?**

Yahweh told Samuel that he would be anointed prince over Israel and he would save Yahweh’s people from the hand of the Philistines.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 9:15–1SA 9:16

## 1 Samuel 9:17–19 (id: 165435)

**What invitation did Samuel give to Saul after he revealed that he was the seer Saul was seeking?**

Samuel invited Saul to go up and eat with him at the high place.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 9:17–1SA 9:19

## 1 Samuel 9:20–21 (id: 165436)

**How did Samuel surprise Saul by what he told him?**

Even though Saul was from a clan which was the least of the tribe of Benjamin, all the desires of Israel were on him and his father’s house.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 9:20–1SA 9:21

## 1 Samuel 9:23–24 (id: 165437)

**What did Samuel tell Saul about the thigh that had been raised in sacrifice?**

He told Saul that it had been kept until the appointed time for him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 9:23–1SA 9:24

## 1 Samuel 9:25–26 (id: 165438)

**What did Samuel say to Saul after they had come down from the high place into the city?**

Samuel told Saul to get up so he could send him on his way.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 9:25–1SA 9:26

## 1 Samuel 9:27 (id: 165439)

**Why did Samuel tell Saul he must stay on the outskirts of the city for awhile?**

Samuel told Saul to stay so Samuel could announce the message of God to him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 9:27

## 1 Samuel 10:1 (id: 165440)

**Why did Samuel pour a flask of oil on Saul’s head and kiss him?**

He poured oil on Saul’s head because Yahweh had anointed him to be a ruler over his inheritance.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 10:1

## 1 Samuel 10:2 (id: 165441)

**What future event did Samuel share with Saul?**

Samuel told Saul that he would find two men near Rachel’s tomb who would tell him that the donkeys had been found.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 10:2

## 1 Samuel 10:3–4 (id: 165442)

**What did Samuel tell Saul would happen when he would come to the oak of Tabor?**

Three men would meet him carrying three young goats, three loaves of bread, and a skin of wine and they would give him two loaves of bread, which he should take.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 10:3–1SA 10:4

## 1 Samuel 10:5–6 (id: 165443)

**What did Samuel tell Saul would happen when he came to the garrison of the Philistines?**

The spirit of Yahweh would rush upon him so that he would be changed into a different man and he would prophesy with a group of prophets from the city.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 10:5–1SA 10:6

## 1 Samuel 10:7–8 (id: 165444)

**What instructions did Samuel give to Saul?**

Samuel told Saul to go down to Gilgal and Samuel would come to sacrifice burnt offerings and peace offerings.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 10:7–1SA 10:8

## 1 Samuel 10:9 (id: 165445)

**What happened when Saul turned his back to leave Samuel?**

When Saul turned to leave, God gave him another heart.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 10:9

## 1 Samuel 10:11–13 (id: 165446)

**Why did people wonder if Saul was one of the prophets?**

The people wondered if he was now one of the prophets because they saw him prophesying with one of the prophets.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 10:11–1SA 10:13

## 1 Samuel 10:14 (id: 165447)

**What did Saul tell his uncle when he was asked where he had gone?**

Saul told his uncle that when he and his servant could not find the donkeys, they went to see Samuel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 10:14

## 1 Samuel 10:15–16 (id: 165448)

**What did Saul not tell his uncle about what Samuel said to him?**

Samuel did not tell his uncle about the matter of the kingdom.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 10:15–1SA 10:16

## 1 Samuel 10:17–19 (id: 165449)

**Why did Yahweh say that Israel had rejected him?**

Israel had rejected Yahweh because they had demanded that he set a king over them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 10:17–1SA 10:19

## 1 Samuel 10:20–21 (id: 165450)

**What happened when Saul was chosen as the next king?**

They looked for Saul, but he could not be found.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 10:20–1SA 10:21

## 1 Samuel 10:22 (id: 165451)

**Why couldn’t they find Saul when he was chosen as the next king?**

Saul had hidden himself among the baggage.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 10:22

## 1 Samuel 10:24 (id: 165452)

**How did Samuel feel about the man whom Yahweh had chosen?**

Samuel said that there was no one like Saul among all the people.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 10:24

## 1 Samuel 10:25 (id: 165453)

**How were the customs and rules of kingship established and preserved?**

Samuel told the people the customs and rules of kingship, wrote them down in a book, and placed it before Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 10:25

## 1 Samuel 10:27 (id: 165454)

**How did some worthless men show their dislike for Saul?**

Some worthless men despised Saul by not bringing him any gifts and questioning how he could save them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 10:27

## 1 Samuel 11:1–2 (id: 165455)

**What was the response of Nahash the Ammonite to the request for a treaty from the men of Jabesh?**

He said he would make a treaty with them if he could bring disgrace on all Israel by gouging out all their right eyes.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 11:1–1SA 11:2

## 1 Samuel 11:3 (id: 165456)

**How did the elders of Jabesh respond to Nahash’s proposal?**

They asked to be left alone for seven days to see if there was anyone in all the territory of Israel who would save them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 11:3

## 1 Samuel 11:4–5 (id: 165457)

**Why did Saul wonder what was wrong with the people in his town of Gibeah?**

Saul heard them crying after they had heard what might happen to the town of Jabesh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 11:4–1SA 11:5

## 1 Samuel 11:6–8 (id: 165458)

**How did Saul respond to the threat against Jabesh?**

He became very angry and rallied all the men of Israel to follow him and fight against the enemies of Jabesh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 11:6–1SA 11:8

## 1 Samuel 11:9 (id: 165459)

**What did the messengers tell the men of Jabesh?**

They told the men of Jabesh that they would be rescued on the next day by the time the sun was hot.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 11:9

## 1 Samuel 11:10 (id: 165460)

**What did the men of Jabesh say to deceive Nahash?**

They told Nahash that they would surrender to him the next day and he could do to them whatever he wanted.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 11:10

## 1 Samuel 11:11 (id: 165461)

**What was the outcome of the battle between the people of Israel and Nahash the Ammonite?**

The people of Israel attacked and defeated the Ammonites and those who survived were scattered.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 11:11

## 1 Samuel 11:12–13 (id: 165462)

**Why did Saul say that none of his opposition would be put to death?**

Saul said no one would be put to death because Yahweh had rescued Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 11:12–1SA 11:13

## 1 Samuel 11:14–15 (id: 165463)

**Why did Samuel, Saul and all the people of Israel go to Gilgal?**

They went to Gilgal to sacrifice peace offerings and to renew the monarchy by making Saul king before Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 11:14–1SA 11:15

## 1 Samuel 12:4–5 (id: 165464)

**Had Samuel every done anything evil against the people of Israel?**

The people of Israel told Samuel he had not cheated or oppressed them or stolen anything from them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 12:4–1SA 12:5

## 1 Samuel 12:6–7 (id: 165465)

**Why did Samuel tell the people of Israel to present themselves before Yahweh?**

He told the people of Israel to present themselves so he could remind them of all the righteous deeds of Yahweh in the past.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 12:6–1SA 12:7

## 1 Samuel 12:8–9 (id: 165466)

**What did God do to the ancestors of the people of Israel after they forgot Yahweh their God after Moses and Aaron brought them up out of Egypt?**

Yahweh sold them into the hand of Sisera, into the hand of the Philistines and into the hand of the king of Moab.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 12:8–1SA 12:9

## 1 Samuel 12:10–11 (id: 165467)

**What did Yahweh do after Israel’s ancestors cried out to Yahweh and asked him to rescue them from the hand of their enemies?**

Yahweh sent Jerub Baal, Bedan, Jephthah, and Samuel to rescue them from their enemies.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 12:10–1SA 12:11

## 1 Samuel 12:12–13 (id: 165468)

**What truth did Samuel want the people of Israel to remember?**

Samuel reminded the people of Israel that they had wanted a king to reign over them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 12:12–1SA 12:13

## 1 Samuel 12:14–15 (id: 165469)

**What choice did Samuel bring before the people of Israel?**

They could obey the command of Yahweh and be followers of Yahweh, or they could rebel against Yahweh’s commands and experience his hand against them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 12:14–1SA 12:15

## 1 Samuel 12:16 (id: 165470)

**What challenge did Samuel lay before the people of Israel?**

Samuel challenged the people to present themselves before Yahweh and see the great thing he would do before their eyes.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 12:16

## 1 Samuel 12:17–18 (id: 165471)

**What did Samuel ask Yahweh to send so that the people of Israel would know the extent of their wickedness?**

He asked Yahweh to send thunder and rain.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 12:17–1SA 12:18

## 1 Samuel 12:19–20 (id: 165472)

**How did Samuel respond when the people of Israel realized the serious nature of their sin?**

Samuel told the people to not be afraid, but to serve Yahweh with all their heart.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 12:19–1SA 12:20

## 1 Samuel 12:22 (id: 165473)

**What message of comfort did Samuel give to the people of Israel?**

Samuel comforted the people of Israel by telling them that Yahweh would not reject them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 12:22

## 1 Samuel 12:23 (id: 165474)

**What did Samuel decide to do for Israel?**

He decided teach the people the way that was good and right, and not to cease to pray for them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 12:23

## 1 Samuel 12:24 (id: 165475)

**What challenge did Samuel give to the people of Israel?**

Samuel told them to consider the great things Yahweh had done for them so they would fear him and serve him in truth with all their heart.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 12:24

## 1 Samuel 13:2 (id: 165476)

**What did Saul do with the soldiers he did not choose to be with him?**

Saul sent the rest of the soldiers home to their own tents.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 13:2

## 1 Samuel 13:3–4 (id: 165477)

**Why did Israel become a rotten smell to the Philistines?**

They became a rotten smell because Saul had defeated the garrison of the Philistines.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 13:3–1SA 13:4

## 1 Samuel 13:5 (id: 165478)

**How did the Philistines respond to the the defeat by the people of Israel?**

They gathered numerous chariots and men to fight against Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 13:5

## 1 Samuel 13:6–7 (id: 165479)

**How did the people of Israel react to the forces of the Philistines?**

They were distressed so they hid in caves, in the underbrush, in rocks, in wells, and in pits, and some fled over the Jordan.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 13:6–1SA 13:7

## 1 Samuel 13:8–10 (id: 165480)

**What did Saul do when Samuel failed to come to Gilgal in seven days?**

Saul offered the burnt offering and the peace offerings himself.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 13:8–1SA 13:10

## 1 Samuel 13:11–12 (id: 165481)

**What excuse did Saul give Samuel for not waiting for him to offer the sacrifices?**

He said he saw the people leaving, so he forced himself to offer the burnt offering to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 13:11–1SA 13:12

## 1 Samuel 13:13 (id: 165482)

**What did Samuel say to rebuke Saul?**

Samuel said Saul had acted foolishly for not keeping the command that Yahweh gave him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 13:13

## 1 Samuel 13:13–14 (id: 165483)

**What did Samuel say would be the consequences for Saul’s actions?**

Because Saul did not obey Yahweh’s command, his rule over Israel would not continue forever, but instead Yahweh had appointed a man after his own heart to be prince over his people.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 13:13–1SA 13:14

## 1 Samuel 13:17 (id: 165484)

**What strategy did the Philistines use against the people of Israel?**

The Philistines sent raiders from their camp to three different areas in Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 13:17

## 1 Samuel 13:19 (id: 165485)

**What limitations did the soldiers of Israel face in their fight against the Philistines?**

The Philistines did not allow the Israelites to have any blacksmiths who could make swords or spears.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 13:19

## 1 Samuel 13:22 (id: 165486)

**How were the soldiers of Israel hindered in their fight against the Philistines?**

The soldiers of Israel did not have any swords or spears in their hands.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 13:22

## 1 Samuel 14:1 (id: 165487)

**What secret did Jonathan, the son of Saul, keep from his father?**

Jonathan and his armor bearer were going to the Philistines’ garrison on the other side of the pass.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:1

## 1 Samuel 14:2–3 (id: 165488)

**What was unknown to the six hundred men who were with Saul?**

They did not know that Jonathan had gone over to the Philistines’ garrison.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:2–1SA 14:3

## 1 Samuel 14:6 (id: 165489)

**What proposal did Jonathan present to his young armor bearer?**

Jonathan told him that Yahweh would work on their behalf to save many people if they would cross over to the garrison of the Philistines.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:6

## 1 Samuel 14:7 (id: 165490)

**What was the armor bearer’s response to the proposal?**

Jonathan’s armor bearer was ready to obey all his commands, so he encouraged him to do everything that was in his heart.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:7

## 1 Samuel 14:8–10 (id: 165491)

**What would be the sign to Jonathan and his armor bearer that Yahweh had given the Philistines into their hand?**

If the Philistines said that they should come over to them, this would be the sign that Yahweh had given them into their hand.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:8–1SA 14:10

## 1 Samuel 14:11–12 (id: 165492)

**What did Jonathan say to his armor bearer after the men of the Philistines’ garrison had told them, “Come up to us and we will show you something”?**

He told his armor bearer to follow him because Yahweh had given them into the hand of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:11–1SA 14:12

## 1 Samuel 14:13–14 (id: 165493)

**What was the result of the attack that Jonathan and his armor bearer made on the Philistines’ garrison?**

Jonathan and his armor bearer put to death about twenty men.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:13–1SA 14:14

## 1 Samuel 14:16–17 (id: 165494)

**What did Saul do when his watchmen in Gibeah of Benjamin saw the crowd of Philistine soldiers dispersing and going here and there?**

Saul had the people count to see who was missing from them, and they discovered it was Jonathan and his armor bearer.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:16–1SA 14:17

## 1 Samuel 14:18–19 (id: 165495)

**Why did Saul command Ahijah the priest to bring the Box of God to him?**

Saul commanded Ahijah the priest to bring the Box of God so they could determine the will of God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:18–1SA 14:19

## 1 Samuel 14:21 (id: 165496)

**Who joined with the Israelites that were with Saul and Jonathan?**

Those Hebrews who had previously been with the Philistines, and who had gone with them into the camp joined the Israelites that were with Saul and Jonathan.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:21

## 1 Samuel 14:23 (id: 165497)

**Who saved Israel that day?**

Yahweh saved Israel that day.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:23

## 1 Samuel 14:24 (id: 165498)

**What caused the hungry men of Israel to be distressed?**

Saul had put the people under an oath that any man that ate food until evening would be cursed.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:24

## 1 Samuel 14:27 (id: 165499)

**What did Jonathan do to unknowingly break the oath?**

Jonathan ate of the honey from the forest.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:27

## 1 Samuel 14:29–30 (id: 165500)

**How was Jonathan critical of the oath his father had made?**

Jonathan said that if the people had been able to freely eat of the honey and from the plunder of their enemies, there would have been a greater slaughter among the Philistines.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:29–1SA 14:30

## 1 Samuel 14:33–34 (id: 165501)

**How did the people of Israel sin against Yahweh after their battle against the Philistines?**

The people of Israel ate the blood of the animals they killed from the plunder.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:33–1SA 14:34

## 1 Samuel 14:37 (id: 165502)

**What caused Saul to not chase after the Philistines even though he was eager to do so?**

He did not receive any answers from God that day.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:37

## 1 Samuel 14:38–39 (id: 165503)

**How did Saul say he would deal with this sin in Israel?**

He said that the man who committed this sin would surely die, even if it was Jonathan his son.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:38–1SA 14:39

## 1 Samuel 14:42 (id: 165504)

**How was it determined that Jonathan was the person who had sinned?**

It was determined by lots.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:42

## 1 Samuel 14:45 (id: 165505)

**How was Jonathan saved from death?**

The people of Israel who would not allow Jonathan to die because he had accomplished a great victory.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:45

## 1 Samuel 14:47–48 (id: 165506)

**How did Saul lead the people of Israel as their king?**

Saul acted with great courage and rescued Israel out of the hands of those who plundered them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 14:47–1SA 14:48

## 1 Samuel 15:2–3 (id: 165507)

**Why did Yahweh want Saul to attack and completely destroy Amalek?**

Amalek opposed Israel on the way when they came up from Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 15:2–1SA 15:3

## 1 Samuel 15:6–7 (id: 165508)

**Why did Saul tell the Kenites to depart from the Amalekites?**

The Kenites showed kindness to the people of Israel when they came up from Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 15:6–1SA 15:7

## 1 Samuel 15:8–9 (id: 165509)

**How did Saul disobey the directions which Yahweh had given to him?**

Saul spared the life of King Agag as well as the best of the animals of the Amalekites.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 15:8–1SA 15:9

## 1 Samuel 15:10–11 (id: 165510)

**Why was Yahweh grieved that he had made Saul king?**

Saul had turned back from following Yahweh’s commandments.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 15:10–1SA 15:11

## 1 Samuel 15:12–13 (id: 165511)

**What was the lie that Saul told to Samuel?**

He said he had fulfilled the command of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 15:12–1SA 15:13

## 1 Samuel 15:14 (id: 165512)

**How did Samuel respond to the lie which Saul had told him?**

Samuel asked about the bleating of sheep and the lowing of oxen he was hearing.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 15:14

## 1 Samuel 15:15 (id: 165513)

**What excuse did Saul give to Samuel to try to explain his disobedience?**

He said the people spared the best of the sheep and oxen so they could sacrifice them to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 15:15

## 1 Samuel 15:17–19 (id: 165514)

**What did Samuel say to rebuke Saul?**

He told Saul that Yahweh had anointed him king over Israel and told him to completely destroy the Amalekites, but instead he had seized the booty and done evil in the sight of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 15:17–1SA 15:19

## 1 Samuel 15:20–21 (id: 165515)

**What was the same excuse that Saul gave to Samuel?**

Saul insisted it was the people who took the best of the booty to sacrifice to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 15:20–1SA 15:21

## 1 Samuel 15:22–23 (id: 165516)

**What was Samuel’s response to Saul?**

Obedience to Yahweh is better than sacrifice and rebellion and stubbornness are sin to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 15:22–1SA 15:23

## 1 Samuel 15:24 (id: 165517)

**What was the reason Saul told Samuel he had sinned?**

Saul said he had broken Yahweh’s commandment because he was afraid of the people.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 15:24

## 1 Samuel 15:26 (id: 165518)

**What was the declaration which Samuel gave to Saul from Yahweh?**

Yahweh had rejected Saul from being the king of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 15:26

## 1 Samuel 15:28 (id: 165519)

**Who was Yahweh going to give the kingdom of Israel to?**

Samuel told Saul that Yahweh was going to give the kingdom of Israel to one of Saul’s neighbors, one who was better than Saul.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 15:28

## 1 Samuel 15:32–33 (id: 165520)

**What did Samuel do to finish the task that Saul had not done?**

Samuel used his sword to kill Agag before Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 15:32–1SA 15:33

## 1 Samuel 16:1 (id: 165521)

**From what did Yahweh tell Samuel he had rejected Saul?**

Yahweh had rejected Saul from being king over Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 16:1

## 1 Samuel 16:2 (id: 165522)

**What did Samuel fear if Saul heard of his travel to Bethlehem?**

He feared that Saul would kill him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 16:2

## 1 Samuel 16:3 (id: 165523)

**How did Yahweh say that Samuel would know who to anoint?**

He told Samuel that he would anoint the one whom Yahweh told him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 16:3

## 1 Samuel 16:4 (id: 165524)

**How did the elders of Bethlehem act when Samuel arrived at their city?**

They were trembling as they came to meet him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 16:4

## 1 Samuel 16:6 (id: 165525)

**What did Samuel say to himself when he looked at Eliab?**

He said to himself that Yahweh’s anointed was certainly standing before him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 16:6

## 1 Samuel 16:7 (id: 165526)

**How did Yahweh explain to Samuel that he does not see as man sees?**

Yahweh said that man looks on the outward appearance, but Yahweh looks on the heart.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 16:7

## 1 Samuel 16:10 (id: 165527)

**What did Samuel say to Jesse after he made seven sons pass before him?**

Samuel said that Yahweh had not chosen any of them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 16:10

## 1 Samuel 16:11 (id: 165528)

**Where was the youngest son before Samuel called for him?**

The youngest son was tending the sheep.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 16:11

## 1 Samuel 16:13 (id: 165529)

**When did the Spirit of Yahweh rush on David?**

The Spirit of Yahweh rushed on David from that day forward.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 16:13

## 1 Samuel 16:14 (id: 165530)

**What spirit troubled Saul instead of the Spirit of Yahweh?**

A harmful spirit from Yahweh troubled Saul.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 16:14

## 1 Samuel 16:16 (id: 165531)

**What did Saul’s servants say that a skillful player could do when the harmful spirit was on Saul?**

The player of the harp would play it and Saul would be well.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 16:16

## 1 Samuel 16:19 (id: 165532)

**How did Saul say which of Jesse’s sons he wanted sent to him?**

Saul sent messengers to Jesse, saying to send him Jesse’s son David, who was with the sheep.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 16:19

## 1 Samuel 16:21 (id: 165533)

**What assignment did Saul give David since he loved him greatly?**

Saul made David his armor bearer.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 16:21

## 1 Samuel 16:23 (id: 165534)

**What would depart from Saul so he would be refreshed and well, when David played the harp?**

The harmful spirit would depart from Saul.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 16:23

## 1 Samuel 17:2 (id: 165535)

**Why had Saul and the men of Israel encamped in the valley of Elah?**

They encamped in the valley of Elah to draw up their battle line to meet the Philistines.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:2

## 1 Samuel 17:5 (id: 165536)

**What was on Goliath’s head?**

He had a helmet of bronze on his head.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:5

## 1 Samuel 17:6 (id: 165537)

**What did Goliath carry between his shoulders?**

He had a javelin of bronze between his shoulders.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:6

## 1 Samuel 17:8 (id: 165538)

**Whom did Goliath say the ranks of Israel served?**

Goliath said they were servants of Saul.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:8

## 1 Samuel 17:9 (id: 165539)

**What did Goliath say would happen to the ranks of Israel if their man killed him?**

He said the Philistines would be their servants.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:9

## 1 Samuel 17:11 (id: 165540)

**When Saul and all Israel heard what the Philistine said, how did they feel?**

They were discouraged and greatly afraid.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:11

## 1 Samuel 17:13 (id: 165541)

**Which of Jesse’s sons had followed Saul to the battle?**

The three oldest sons of Jesse had followed Saul to the battle.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:13

## 1 Samuel 17:16 (id: 165542)

**For how long and how often did the Philistine strong man come near to present himself for battle?**

For forty days he came near morning and evening to present himself for battle.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:16

## 1 Samuel 17:20 (id: 165543)

**What was the army doing as David arrived at the camp?**

The army was going out to the battlefield shouting the war cry.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:20

## 1 Samuel 17:23 (id: 165544)

**As David talked with his brothers who came out of the ranks of the Philistines?**

The strong man, Goliath, came out of the ranks of the Philistines.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:23

## 1 Samuel 17:25 (id: 165545)

**What would the king do for the father’s house of the man who killed Goliath?**

The king would give the man great riches and make his father’s house free from taxation in Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:25

## 1 Samuel 17:26 (id: 165546)

**What did David say the man who killed the Philistine would take away from Israel?**

The man who killed the Philistine would take away the disgrace from Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:26

## 1 Samuel 17:28 (id: 165547)

**What did Eliab say was the mischief in David’s heart?**

He said that he knew David’s pride, and that he came down so that he might see the battle.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:28

## 1 Samuel 17:32 (id: 165548)

**What did David tell Saul he would do so no man’s heart needed to fail because of the Philistine?**

David told Saul that he would go and fight with the Philistine.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:32

## 1 Samuel 17:35 (id: 165549)

**What did David do to the lion or bear that rose up against him?**

He caught him by his beard, struck him, and killed him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:35

## 1 Samuel 17:36 (id: 165550)

**Why did David say this uncircumcised Philistine will be like the lion or the bear he had killed earlier?**

The Philistine had challenged the armies of the living God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:36

## 1 Samuel 17:39 (id: 165551)

**Why was David not able to walk in the armor the king provided?**

He had not trained with it.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:39

## 1 Samuel 17:42 (id: 165552)

**Why did the Philistine despise David when he saw him?**

David was only a boy, and ruddy, with a handsome appearance.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:42

## 1 Samuel 17:45 (id: 165553)

**When the Philistine came with sword, spear and Javelin, in what did David say he came?**

David said that he came in the name of Yahweh of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom the Philistine had defied.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:45

## 1 Samuel 17:46 (id: 165554)

**What did David say the earth would know because the dead bodies of the Philistines would be given to the birds and wild beasts?**

All the earth would know that there is a God in Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:46

## 1 Samuel 17:48 (id: 165555)

**What did David do when Goliath drew near to meet him?**

David ran quickly toward the enemy to meet him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:48

## 1 Samuel 17:51 (id: 165556)

**What did the Philistines do when they saw that their strong man was dead?**

The Philistines fled.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:51

## 1 Samuel 17:53 (id: 165557)

**What did the people of Israel do as they returned from chasing the Philistines?**

The people of Israel plundered the Philistine camp.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:53

## 1 Samuel 17:57 (id: 165558)

**What did David have in his hand when Abner brought him before Saul?**

David had the head of the Philistine in his hand.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 17:57

## 1 Samuel 18:1 (id: 165559)

**How strongly was the soul of Jonathan bound to the soul of David?**

Jonathan loved David as his own soul.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 18:1

## 1 Samuel 18:4 (id: 165560)

**What did Jonathan take off and give to David with his armor?**

Jonathan took off the robe that he was wearing and gave it to David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 18:4

## 1 Samuel 18:5 (id: 165561)

**Over whom did Saul set David?**

Saul set him over the men of war.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 18:5

## 1 Samuel 18:8 (id: 165562)

**What had the singers’ song ascribed to David, which displeased Saul?**

They ascribed to David ten thousands, but they had ascribed only thousands to Saul.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 18:8

## 1 Samuel 18:11 (id: 165563)

**What did Saul think as he threw the spear at David?**

Saul thought that he would pin David to the wall.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 18:11

## 1 Samuel 18:14 (id: 165564)

**Why did David prosper in all his ways?**

David prospered for Yahweh was with him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 18:14

## 1 Samuel 18:17 (id: 165565)

**Why did Saul think his hand would not need to be against David?**

Saul thought the hand of the Philistines be against David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 18:17

## 1 Samuel 18:20 (id: 165566)

**What did Saul think his daughter Michal would be for David if Saul gave her to him?**

Saul thought she could be a trap for David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 18:20

## 1 Samuel 18:22 (id: 165567)

**Where did Saul command his servants to speak with David about becoming the king’s son\-in\-law?**

He commanded his servants to speak with David in private.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 18:22

## 1 Samuel 18:23 (id: 165568)

**Why did David think he was not worthy to be the king’s son\-in\-law?**

He was a poor man, and lightly esteemed.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 18:23

## 1 Samuel 18:25 (id: 165569)

**What was the only dowry the king desired from David?**

The king desired only one hundred foreskins of the Philistines.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 18:25

## 1 Samuel 18:27 (id: 165570)

**What did David and his men do that exceeded the king’s dowry request?**

David killed two hundred Philistines and brought their foreskins.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 18:27

## 1 Samuel 18:30 (id: 165571)

**How great was David’s success, so his name was highly regarded?**

David succeeded more than all the servants of Saul.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 18:30

## 1 Samuel 19:2 (id: 165572)

**Why did Jonathan tell David to be on his guard and hide himself?**

Saul was seeking to kill David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 19:2

## 1 Samuel 19:4 (id: 165573)

**What did Jonathan tell Saul that David’s deeds brought to him?**

Jonathan told Saul that David’s deeds had brought Saul good.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 19:4

## 1 Samuel 19:6 (id: 165574)

**What did Saul swear after listening to Jonathan?**

Saul swore that he would not put David to death.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 19:6

## 1 Samuel 19:8 (id: 165575)

**What happened when David again went out and fought with the Philistines?**

David defeated the Philistines with a great slaughter.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 19:8

## 1 Samuel 19:11 (id: 165576)

**Why did Saul send messengers to David’s house to watch him?**

Saul wanted to kill him in the morning.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 19:11

## 1 Samuel 19:12 (id: 165577)

**How did Michal help David to flee and escape?**

Michal let David down through the window.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 19:12

## 1 Samuel 19:15 (id: 165578)

**What did Saul plan to do when he ordered for David to be brought to him in the bed?**

Saul planned to kill him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 19:15

## 1 Samuel 19:16 (id: 165579)

**What did Michal use at the head of the household idol in the bed to make it look like David?**

She put a pillow of goats’ hair at the idol’s head.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 19:16

## 1 Samuel 19:18 (id: 165580)

**When David fled and escaped, who did he go to see in Ramah?**

David went to Samuel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 19:18

## 1 Samuel 19:20 (id: 165581)

**What happened to the messengers of Saul that caused them to prophesy?**

The Spirit of God came on them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 19:20

## 1 Samuel 19:21–22 (id: 165582)

**After sending messengers for a third time what did Saul do?**

Saul also went to Ramah.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 19:21–1SA 19:22

## 1 Samuel 19:24 (id: 165583)

**How long did Saul lay naked before Samuel?**

He lay naked all that day and all that night.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 19:24

## 1 Samuel 20:2 (id: 165584)

**What did Jonathan say his father did not do without telling him?**

He said that his father did nothing either great or small without telling it to him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 20:2

## 1 Samuel 20:3 (id: 165585)

**How close did David say he was to death?**

He said that there was but a step between him and death.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 20:3

## 1 Samuel 20:5 (id: 165586)

**What did David ask to do until the third day at evening?**

David asked to hide in the field until the third day at evening.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 20:5

## 1 Samuel 20:6 (id: 165587)

**What reason did David tell Jonathan to give Saul if Saul missed him?**

He said to tell Saul that he went to Bethlehem his city, because it is the yearly sacrifice there for the whole family.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 20:6

## 1 Samuel 20:8 (id: 165588)

**Why did David ask Jonathan to deal kindly with him as his servant?**

Jonathan had brought David, his servant, into a covenant of Yahweh with him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 20:8

## 1 Samuel 20:11 (id: 165589)

**Where did Jonathan say to go to continue their discussion?**

He told David to go with him out into the field.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 20:11

## 1 Samuel 20:13 (id: 165590)

**Why did Jonathan want to make his father’s response known to David and send him away?**

Jonathan promises to make it known to David so that David could go in peace.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 20:13

## 1 Samuel 20:17 (id: 165591)

**Why did Jonathan make David vow again to him?**

He made David vow again because of the love that he had for him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 20:17

## 1 Samuel 20:21 (id: 165592)

**Who does Jonathan say he would send to find the arrows he shot?**

He said he would send a young man to find the arrows.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 20:21

## 1 Samuel 20:24 (id: 165593)

**When the new moon came, what did the king sit down to do?**

The king sat down to eat food.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 20:24

## 1 Samuel 20:26 (id: 165594)

**What did Saul think could have happened to David to make him absent from the feast?**

Saul thought David was not clean.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 20:26

## 1 Samuel 20:29 (id: 165595)

**Why does Jonathan say David had to attend his family’s sacrifice?**

He said David’s brother had ordered him to be there.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 20:29

## 1 Samuel 20:30 (id: 165596)

**How does Saul describe Jonathan’s mother in his burning anger?**

He called him the son of a wicked and rebellious woman.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 20:30

## 1 Samuel 20:34 (id: 165597)

**Why was Jonathan grieved over David?**

He was grieved over David because his father had dishonored him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 20:34

## 1 Samuel 20:36 (id: 165598)

**Where did Jonathan shoot the arrow as the young man ran?**

Jonathan shot an arrow beyond the young man.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 20:36

## 1 Samuel 20:42 (id: 165599)

**What did Jonathan do when David stood up and left?**

Jonathan returned to the city.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 20:42

## 1 Samuel 21:2 (id: 165600)

**About what did David say the king told him to let no one know?**

He said the king told him to let no one know anything about the business he was sending him, and what he had commanded him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 21:2

## 1 Samuel 21:4 (id: 165601)

**What did the priest answer David about the bread on hand?**

The priest said that there was no ordinary bread on hand, but there was holy bread.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 21:4

## 1 Samuel 21:6 (id: 165602)

**From where had the bread of the presence been removed?**

The bread of the presence had been removed from before Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 21:6

## 1 Samuel 21:7 (id: 165603)

**What was the work Doeg the Edomite did for Saul?**

Doeg the Edomite was the chief of Saul’s herdsmen.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 21:7

## 1 Samuel 21:8 (id: 165604)

**Why did David say he had no weapons with him?**

He said that he had brought no weapons because the king’s business was urgent.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 21:8

## 1 Samuel 21:10 (id: 165605)

**From whom was David fleeing when he went to Achish?**

He was fleeing that day from Saul.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 21:10

## 1 Samuel 21:13 (id: 165606)

**What did David pretend when he changed his behavior before Achish?**

He pretended to be insane in their hands.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 21:13

## 1 Samuel 21:14 (id: 165607)

**What did Achish ask his servants when he saw David was mad?**

He asked them why they brought this madman to him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 21:14

## 1 Samuel 22:2 (id: 165608)

**Who besides David’s father’s house gathered to him at the cave of Adullam?**

Everyone who was in distress, every one who was in debt, and every one who was discontented, gathered to him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 22:2

## 1 Samuel 22:4 (id: 165609)

**How long did David’s father and mother stay with the king of Moab?**

They stayed with the king the whole time that David was in his stronghold.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 22:4

## 1 Samuel 22:6 (id: 165610)

**Who had been discovered along with David?**

The men who were with David were also discovered.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 22:6

## 1 Samuel 22:8 (id: 165611)

**What does Saul accuse his servants of not revealing to him?**

Saul said that none of his servants revealed to him that his son had incited his servant David against him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 22:8

## 1 Samuel 22:10 (id: 165612)

**What two things does Doeg the Edomite tell Saul that Ahimelech gave to David?**

Ahimelech gave David provisions and the sword of Goliath the Philistine.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 22:10

## 1 Samuel 22:13 (id: 165613)

**What did Saul say Ahimelech did for the son of Jesse besides giving him bread and a sword?**

Saul said that Ahimelech prayed to God that he might help him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 22:13

## 1 Samuel 22:17 (id: 165614)

**What were the servants of King Saul not willing to put out their hand to do?**

They would not kill the priests of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 22:17

## 1 Samuel 22:19 (id: 165615)

**Who did Doeg kill with the edge of the sword in Nob, the city of the priests?**

He killed both men and women, children and infants, and oxen and donkeys and sheep.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 22:19

## 1 Samuel 22:20 (id: 165616)

**Where did Abiathar go when he escaped the killing?**

Abiathar fled after David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 22:20

## 1 Samuel 22:22 (id: 165617)

**For what did David tell Abiathar he was responsible?**

David said that he was responsible for every death in his father’s family.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 22:22

## 1 Samuel 23:1–2 (id: 165618)

**From whom did David seek help when the Philistines fought against Keilah and robbed the threshing floors?**

David prayed to Yahweh for help.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 23:1–1SA 23:2

## 1 Samuel 23:3–4 (id: 165619)

**Why did David pray to Yahweh again about the Philistines?**

David’s men told him they were afraid in Judah and were also afraid to attack the Philistines.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 23:3–1SA 23:4

## 1 Samuel 23:5 (id: 165620)

**What was the outcome when David and his men fought with the Philistines as Yahweh had told David to do?**

Yahweh gave them victory over the Philistines, so David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 23:5

## 1 Samuel 23:7–8 (id: 165621)

**Why did Saul think he could attack David and his men?**

David and his men were shut in in a city that had gates and bars.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 23:7–1SA 23:8

## 1 Samuel 23:9 (id: 165622)

**After David knew that Saul was plotting harm against him, what did David say to Abiathar the priest?**

David said to Abiathar the priest, “Bring the ephod here.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 23:9

## 1 Samuel 23:10–11 (id: 165623)

**What did David ask Yahweh concerning Saul and the men of Keilah?**

David wanted to know if Saul would come down to Keilah and if the men of Keilah would surrender him into Saul’s hand.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 23:10–1SA 23:11

## 1 Samuel 23:12 (id: 165624)

**What was Yahweh’s reply to David concerning the men of Keilah?**

Yahweh told David that the men of Keilah would surrender David into the hand of Saul.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 23:12

## 1 Samuel 23:13–14 (id: 165625)

**Why did Saul stop his pursuit of David at Keilah and search for him elsewhere?**

Saul was told that David had escaped from Keilah.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 23:13–1SA 23:14

## 1 Samuel 23:15 (id: 165626)

**How was Jonathan, Saul’s son, a help to David in the wilderness?**

He went to David and strengthened his hand in God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 23:15

## 1 Samuel 23:18 (id: 165627)

**Before Jonathan went home, what did he and David do in Horesh?**

They made a covenant before Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 23:18

## 1 Samuel 23:25 (id: 165628)

**Why was David not safe in Horesh and what did he do?**

He was going to be betrayed by the people and given over to Saul, so he and his men went to another wilderness.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 23:25

## 1 Samuel 23:26–27 (id: 165629)

**What happened as Saul and his men were surrounding David and his men?**

A messenger came to Saul and told him that the Philistines had made a raid against the land.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 23:26–1SA 23:27

## 1 Samuel 23:28 (id: 165630)

**What was Saul’s response to this news?**

Saul returned to fight the Philistines.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 23:28

## 1 Samuel 24:1–2 (id: 165631)

**What did Saul do when he heard that David was in the wilderness of Engedi?**

He took three thousand chosen men and went to find David and his men.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 24:1–1SA 24:2

## 1 Samuel 24:4 (id: 165632)

**What did David do to Saul in the cave instead of killing him?**

David cut off a corner of Saul’s robe without being noticed.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 24:4

## 1 Samuel 24:5–7 (id: 165633)

**Why would David not allow his men to attack Saul, but let him leave the cave in safety?**

David’s heart afflicted him and he felt that Yahweh would not want him to harm Yahweh’s anointed.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 24:5–1SA 24:7

## 1 Samuel 24:8 (id: 165634)

**When David left the cave after Saul, how did he show respect to Saul?**

David called Saul his master, the king, and then bowed his face to the ground.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 24:8

## 1 Samuel 24:10–11 (id: 165635)

**How did David show Saul that he did not want to bring harm to him?**

David showed him the corner of his robe that David had been close enough to cut off.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 24:10–1SA 24:11

## 1 Samuel 24:16 (id: 165636)

**What was Saul’s response to David?**

He called David his son, then Saul lifted up his voice and wept.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 24:16

## 1 Samuel 24:17–18 (id: 165637)

**Why did Saul say that David was more righteous than himself?**

David had repaid Saul with good even though Saul had done evil to David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 24:17–1SA 24:18

## 1 Samuel 24:20 (id: 165638)

**What did Saul come to know about David at this time?**

Saul knew that David would be king and the kingdom of Israel would be established with David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 24:20

## 1 Samuel 24:21–22 (id: 165639)

**Before Saul went home, what oath did David make to him at Saul’s request?**

David promised he would not cut off Saul’s descendants, and he would not destroy Saul’s name out of his father’s house.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 24:21–1SA 24:22

## 1 Samuel 25:3 (id: 165640)

**What kind of man was Nabal in his dealings?**

He was harsh and evil.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:3

## 1 Samuel 25:3 (#2) (id: 165641)

**What was Habal’s wife Abigail like?**

She was intelligent and beautiful in appearance.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:3

## 1 Samuel 25:4 (id: 165642)

**Who did David send to greet Nabal while he was shearing his sheep?**

David sent ten young men to greet Nabal.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:4

## 1 Samuel 25:7 (id: 165643)

**Why did David think that Nabal would help him and his ten young men?**

David’s group had protected Nabal’s shepherds when they were with David’s group.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:7

## 1 Samuel 25:8 (id: 165644)

**What did David’s young men ask Nabal to give them?**

They asked Nabal to give them and David whatever he has in hand for a festive day.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:8

## 1 Samuel 25:9–11 (id: 165645)

**What was Nabal’s response to David’s young men?**

Nabal said that he did not know David and he needed all he had for his shearers.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:9–1SA 25:11

## 1 Samuel 25:13 (id: 165646)

**What did David tell his men to do when he heard about Nabal’s response?**

David ordered his men to strap on their swords.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:13

## 1 Samuel 25:14–15 (id: 165647)

**When the young man spoke to Abigail, how did he say that David and his men treated them in the fields?**

He said they were good to Nabal’s shepherds while they were with them in the field.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:14–1SA 25:15

## 1 Samuel 25:17 (id: 165648)

**Why did the young man go to Abigail instead of to Nabal?**

Nabal was such a worthless fellow that no one could reason with him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:17

## 1 Samuel 25:18–19 (id: 165649)

**What did Abigail do after hearing about her husband’s response.**

Abigail hurriedly gathered provisions and told her young men to go before her, but she did not tell Nabal.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:18–1SA 25:19

## 1 Samuel 25:20 (id: 165650)

**Who came toward Abigail as she rode her donkey bringing the provisions?**

David and his men came toward Abigail and she met them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:20

## 1 Samuel 25:21–22 (id: 165651)

**What had David said that he planned to do after guarding Nabal’s possessions in vain?**

David planned to kill all the men who belonged to Nabal.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:21–1SA 25:22

## 1 Samuel 25:23–24 (id: 165652)

**What did Abigail do when when she met David?**

Abigail hurriedly got down from her donkey, lay before David face down and asked to speak to David as his servant.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:23–1SA 25:24

## 1 Samuel 25:25–26 (id: 165653)

**What did Abigail hope to prevent by talking to David?**

She hoped to stop the bloodshed of those with Nabal.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:25–1SA 25:26

## 1 Samuel 25:27–28 (id: 165654)

**What does Abigail hope to accomplish by giving David and his young men the provisions?**

Abigail hoped that David would forgive Nabal’s sins.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:27–1SA 25:28

## 1 Samuel 25:28 (id: 165655)

**Who does Abigail tell David will make his home sure and without evil?**

Abigail says that Yahweh will make David’s home sure.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:28

## 1 Samuel 25:29 (id: 165656)

**Who will sling away the lives of David’s enemies, as from the pocket of a sling?**

Yahweh will protect David even though men rise up to take his life.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:29

## 1 Samuel 25:32 (id: 165657)

**Who does David say sent Abigail to meet him?**

David said that Yahweh sent Abigail.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:32

## 1 Samuel 25:33 (id: 165658)

**Why does David say that Abigail and her wisdom are blessed?**

Because of Abigail’s quick action, David kept from shedding blood and avenging himself.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:33

## 1 Samuel 25:34 (id: 165659)

**Who has kept David form killing all the males in Nabal’s household by sending Abigail quickly?**

Yahweh, the God of Israel, kept David from killing the males in Nabal’s household.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:34

## 1 Samuel 25:36 (id: 165660)

**Why did Abigail not talk to Nabal when she returned from seeing David?**

Nabal was holding a feast and was very drunk.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:36

## 1 Samuel 25:37–38 (id: 165661)

**What happened to Nabal in the morning when Abigail talked to him?**

His heart died and he became like stone, and ten days later Yahweh attacked Nabal and he died.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:37–1SA 25:38

## 1 Samuel 25:39–40 (id: 165662)

**What did David do when he heard that Nabal was dead?**

David sent his servants to ask Abigail to become his wife.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:39–1SA 25:40

## 1 Samuel 25:42 (id: 165663)

**What did Abigail do when she heard David wanted to marry her?**

Abigail hurriedly arose and went by donkey following David’s messengers to become his wife.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:42

## 1 Samuel 25:44 (id: 165664)

**What happened to David’s wife, Michal?**

Saul gave her to another man as his wife.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 25:44

## 1 Samuel 26:2 (id: 165665)

**Who did Saul take with him to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph?**

Saul took three thousand chosen men of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 26:2

## 1 Samuel 26:4 (id: 165666)

**How did David know that Saul was coming after him into the wilderness?**

David had sent out spies and learned from them that Saul was coming.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 26:4

## 1 Samuel 26:5 (id: 165667)

**Where did David go after learning that Saul had come?**

David arose and went to the place where Saul camped.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 26:5

## 1 Samuel 26:6–7 (id: 165668)

**What did Joab’s brother want to do when he and David saw Saul sleeping inside the camp?**

Joab’s brother wanted to kill Saul with his spear.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 26:6–1SA 26:7

## 1 Samuel 26:9 (id: 165669)

**Why did David not want Joab’s brother to kill Saul?**

David said no one could extend his hand against Yahweh’s anointed one and be guiltless.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 26:9

## 1 Samuel 26:10 (id: 165670)

**How does David say Saul must die?**

Yahweh will kill Saul, or he will die on his own, or he will die in battle.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 26:10

## 1 Samuel 26:11–12 (id: 165671)

**What did David take from Saul?**

David took the spear and the jar of water from near Saul’s head.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 26:11–1SA 26:12

## 1 Samuel 26:13 (id: 165672)

**What did David go after left Saul’s camp?**

He went over to the other side and stood on the top to the mountain far off.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 26:13

## 1 Samuel 26:15–16 (id: 165673)

**Why did David say Abner, the man who was to watch over Saul, deserved to die?**

He did not keep watch after his master Saul when someone came to kill him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 26:15–1SA 26:16

## 1 Samuel 26:17–18 (id: 165674)

**What question did David ask Saul?**

David asked why Saul was pursuing David and what evil David had done.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 26:17–1SA 26:18

## 1 Samuel 26:19 (id: 165675)

**What did David want to happen to human beings that stirred Saul up against David?**

David wants them to be cursed in the sight of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 26:19

## 1 Samuel 26:21 (id: 165676)

**What did Saul say to David?**

Saul said that he had sinned and would harm David no more.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 26:21

## 1 Samuel 26:22 (id: 165677)

**What did David tell Saul to do about his spear?**

He told Saul to send one of his young men over to get it.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 26:22

## 1 Samuel 26:24 (id: 165678)

**What value did David show that he had for Saul’s life?**

Saul’s life was precious in David’s eyes.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 26:24

## 1 Samuel 27:1 (id: 165679)

**Why did David think that he needed to escape into the land of the Philistines?**

David felt that was the only way he could escape Saul.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 27:1

## 1 Samuel 27:4 (id: 165680)

**What made Saul no longer look for David?**

Saul heard that David and those with him had fled to Gath.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 27:4

## 1 Samuel 27:5–6 (id: 165681)

**What did David ask and get from Achish the Philistine?**

David asked for a place in one of the cities in the country, and Achish gave him Ziklag.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 27:5–1SA 27:6

## 1 Samuel 27:8–9 (id: 165682)

**What did David and his men do with the men and women, animals and clothing from their raids?**

They killed the people and took the animals and clothing and then returned to Achish.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 27:8–1SA 27:9

## 1 Samuel 27:10 (id: 165683)

**How did David tell Achish he had been when he returned from raids?**

David said that he raided the south of Judah, so Achish thought he attacked Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 27:10

## 1 Samuel 27:11 (id: 165684)

**Why did David keep no one alive and bring them to Gath?**

David killed everyone so that they would be unable to tell what David had done.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 27:11

## 1 Samuel 27:12 (id: 165685)

**Why did Achish think that David has made his people of Israel utterly hate David?**

Achish believed David’s lies that he had raided the people of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 27:12

## 1 Samuel 28:1–2 (id: 165686)

**What did Achish want David to do when the Philistines gathered to fight Israel?**

Achish wanted David to permanently be his bodyguard.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 28:1–1SA 28:2

## 1 Samuel 28:3 (id: 165687)

**Who did Saul ban from the land after Samuel’s death?**

Saul banned all those who talked with the dead or with spirits.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 28:3

## 1 Samuel 28:4 (id: 165688)

**Which two countries gathered to fight?**

The Philistines and Israel gathered.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 28:4

## 1 Samuel 28:5–7 (id: 165689)

**Why did Saul search for a woman who claimed to talk to the dead?**

Saul was afraid of the Philistine army and did not hear from Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 28:5–1SA 28:7

## 1 Samuel 28:8–9 (id: 165690)

**What was the women afraid of when the disguised Saul and two of his men went to talk to her?**

She was afraid because Saul killed everyone who talked to the dead after Samuel’s death.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 28:8–1SA 28:9

## 1 Samuel 28:10 (id: 165691)

**What did Saul promise to the woman?**

Saul promised that she would not be punished if she helped Saul.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 28:10

## 1 Samuel 28:11–12 (id: 165692)

**How did the woman know that Saul was the man who asked for her to bring up Samuel?**

She knew that she was deceived when she saw Samuel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 28:11–1SA 28:12

## 1 Samuel 28:13–14 (id: 165693)

**What did the woman say Samuel looked like?**

The woman saw a god coming out of the earth, an old man clothed with a robe.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 28:13–1SA 28:14

## 1 Samuel 28:15 (id: 165694)

**Why did Saul bring up Samuel?**

Saul was distressed because the Philistines are going to war with him and God has left Saul.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 28:15

## 1 Samuel 28:16–17 (id: 165695)

**What did Samuel say Yahweh had done with Saul’s kingdom?**

Yahweh had torn Saul’s kingdom from him and given it to David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 28:16–1SA 28:17

## 1 Samuel 28:19 (id: 165696)

**How soon were Saul and his sons going to be dead with Samuel?**

They would die the next day.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 28:19

## 1 Samuel 28:22 (id: 165697)

**What did the woman and Saul’s servants urged him to do?**

They urged him to eat and gain his strength.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 28:22

## 1 Samuel 28:24–25 (id: 165698)

**What did the woman bring to Saul and his servants to eat?**

She killed a fatted calf and baked unleavened bread for them to eat.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 28:24–1SA 28:25

## 1 Samuel 29:3 (id: 165699)

**What did Achish say he had not found in David?**

Achish said he had found no fault with David since he came to him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 29:3

## 1 Samuel 29:4 (id: 165700)

**What were the princes of the Philistines afraid that David would do during the battle?**

They feared that David would become an enemy to them in the battle.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 29:4

## 1 Samuel 29:6–7 (id: 165701)

**What did Achish tell David to do because the princes of the Philistines did not want David there?**

He told David to peacefully return to his home.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 29:6–1SA 29:7

## 1 Samuel 29:9 (id: 165702)

**What was the final decision about David that Achish told David?**

They said David must not go up with them to the battle.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 29:9

## 1 Samuel 29:10 (id: 165703)

**What did Achish tell David to do in the morning?**

He told David to rise early, take the men that had come with him, and go away.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 29:10

## 1 Samuel 30:1–2 (id: 165704)

**What did David and his men find had happened to Ziklag while they were away?**

The Amalekites had raided, attacked, burned it, and captured all the women and others and took them away.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 30:1–1SA 30:2

## 1 Samuel 30:3–4 (id: 165705)

**How did David and his men react to what they found in Ziklag?**

They raised their voices and wept until they could weep no more.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 30:3–1SA 30:4

## 1 Samuel 30:5–6 (id: 165706)

**Why was David distressed?**

His two wives were taken captive, and the grieving people were talking about stoning him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 30:5–1SA 30:6

## 1 Samuel 30:8 (id: 165707)

**What did David want to know when he prayed to Yahweh?**

David wanted to know, if he pursued after the Amalekites, would he overtake them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 30:8

## 1 Samuel 30:8 (#2) (id: 165708)

**What was Yahweh’s answer to David?**

Yahweh told him to pursue the troop, be successful, and recover everything that had been taken.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 30:8

## 1 Samuel 30:10 (id: 165709)

**What happened to two hundred of David’s men at the brook Besor?**

They so weak that they had to stay behind.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 30:10

## 1 Samuel 30:12 (id: 165710)

**What was wrong with the Egyptian man that David and his men found as they were pursuing the Amalekites?**

He had not eaten bread or drunk any water for three days and three nights.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 30:12

## 1 Samuel 30:13 (id: 165711)

**Why had the Egyptian’s master left him?**

He said he fell sick three days ago.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 30:13

## 1 Samuel 30:15 (id: 165712)

**What was the Egyptian’s requirement before he would show David where the raiding party was?**

He told David to swear that he would not kill him or betray him to his master.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 30:15

## 1 Samuel 30:16–17 (id: 165713)

**What were the raiders doing when David attacked them?**

They were celebrating because of all the booty they had taken from the land of the Philistines and Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 30:16–1SA 30:17

## 1 Samuel 30:18 (id: 165714)

**What did David recover after his attack on the raiders?**

He recovered everything the Amalekites and raiders had taken.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 30:18

## 1 Samuel 30:22 (id: 165715)

**Why didn’t the wicked men think that the recovered booty should be shared with those men that were left behind?**

They said those left behind did not go and fight with them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 30:22

## 1 Samuel 30:23–24 (id: 165716)

**Why did David tell the wicked men they should all share and share alike?**

He said Yahweh had preserved them and had given them victory over the raiders that had come against them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 30:23–1SA 30:24

## 1 Samuel 30:26 (id: 165717)

**What did David do with the booty from Yahweh’s enemies when he came back to Ziklag?**

David shared the booty with many elders of Judah and other places that he and his men frequently went.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 30:26

## 1 Samuel 31:1 (id: 165718)

**What happened to the men of Israel when they fought the Philistines?**

The men of Israel fled from the Philistines and fell dead.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 31:1

## 1 Samuel 31:2 (id: 165719)

**What happened to Saul’s sons?**

The Philistines killed his sons.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 31:2

## 1 Samuel 31:3 (id: 165720)

**What happened to Saul in the battle?**

He was overtaken by the archers and was in severe pain.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 31:3

## 1 Samuel 31:4 (id: 165721)

**What did Saul ask his armor bearer to do because Saul was in severe pain and he was afraid his enemy would come and abuse him?**

Saul asked him to draw his sword and kill him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 31:4

## 1 Samuel 31:4 (#2) (id: 165722)

**What did Saul do when his armor bearer was afraid and would not kill him?**

Saul took his own sword and fell on it.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 31:4

## 1 Samuel 31:5 (id: 165723)

**What did the armor bearer do after he saw that Saul was dead?**

He fell on his own sword and died.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 31:5

## 1 Samuel 31:7 (id: 165724)

**Why did the men of Israel from the other side of the valley and beyond the Jordan abandon their cities and flea?**

They fled because they saw that the other men of Israel had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 31:7

## 1 Samuel 31:9 (id: 165725)

**What did the Philistines do with Saul’s body that they found when they came to strip the dead?**

The Philistines cut off Saul’s head and fastened his body to the city wall of Beth Shan.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 31:9

## 1 Samuel 31:11–12 (id: 165726)

**What did the fighting men of Jabesh Gilead do after its inhabitants heard what happened to Saul?**

They went to Bethshan and took the bodies of Saul and his sons to Jabesh and burned them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 31:11–1SA 31:12

## 1 Samuel 31:13 (id: 165727)

**What did the inhabitants of Jabesh do with the bones of Saul and his sons?**

They buried their bones under a terebinth tree in Jabesh and fasted for seven days.

* **Associated Passages:** 1SA 31:13

