# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## 1 Kings 1:1 (id: 164804)

**What problem did King David have when he became old?**

Although they covered King David with clothes, he could not stay warm.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:1

## 1 Kings 1:4 (id: 164805)

**Although Abishag was beautiful and served the king and took care of him what did David not do with her?**

The king did not have sexual relations with Abishag.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:4

## 1 Kings 1:5 (id: 164806)

**How did Adonijah the son of Haggith exalt himself?**

Adonijah wanted to be king, so he prepared for himself chariots and horsemen with fifty men to run ahead of him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:5

## 1 Kings 1:6 (id: 164807)

**Did King David discipline his son Adonijah and correct his actions?**

No, King David had never troubled Adonijah by saying, “Why have you done this or that?”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:6

## 1 Kings 1:7 (id: 164808)

**Who were the two men who followed and helped Adonijah?**

Joab and Abiathar helped Adonijah in his plot to become king.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:7

## 1 Kings 1:9–10 (id: 164809)

**Who did Adonijah not invite to his sacrifice?**

Adonijah did not invite Nathan the prophet, Benaiah, the mighty men, or his brother Solomon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:9–1KI 1:10

## 1 Kings 1:11–12 (id: 164810)

**Who warned Bathsheba the mother of Solomon that Adonijah had become king and that her life was in danger?**

Nathan the Prophet warned Bathsheba that her life and the life of her son Solomon were in danger.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:11–1KI 1:12

## 1 Kings 1:13 (id: 164811)

**What questions did Nathan tell Bathsheba to ask King David?**

Nathan the prophet told Bathsheba to ask David whether he promised that Solomon would be king, and why Adonijah was reigning.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:13

## 1 Kings 1:17 (id: 164812)

**What promise had King David sworn to Bathsheba?**

David had sworn to Bathsheba that Solomon would be king after David died.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:17

## 1 Kings 1:18–19 (id: 164813)

**What did Bathsheba tell King David that Adonijah had done?**

Bathsheba told him that Adonijah had become king, without David knowing it, and that he had sacrificed animals in abundance

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:18–1KI 1:19

## 1 Kings 1:21 (id: 164814)

**What did Bathsheba fear would happen when David died?**

She feared that she and her son Solomon would be regarded as criminals

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:21

## 1 Kings 1:24 (id: 164815)

**What question did Nathan the prophet ask of King David?**

Nathan asked him if David had said that Adonijah would reign after him and sit on his throne as king.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:24

## 1 Kings 1:24–25 (id: 164816)

**Why did Nathan the prophet come to visit King David?**

Nathan the prophet wanted to inform King David that Adonijah was setting himself up as King without David’s permission.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:24–1KI 1:25

## 1 Kings 1:29–30 (id: 164817)

**What oath did King David make to Bathsheba?**

David made an oath that Solomon the son of Bathsheba would reign after him and sit on his throne in David’s place.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:29–1KI 1:30

## 1 Kings 1:32–33 (id: 164818)

**What did King David tell Zadok, Nathan, and Benaiah to do for his son Solomon?**

King David told his three loyal subjects to take Solomon to Gihon on David’s own mule and to anoint him as king over Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:32–1KI 1:33

## 1 Kings 1:39–40 (id: 164819)

**How did the people respond when Zadok anointed Solomon as king?**

The people said “Long live King Solomon!” and rejoiced with great joy

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:39–1KI 1:40

## 1 Kings 1:51 (id: 164820)

**What did Adonijah do when he heard the news that David had made Solomon the king of Israel?**

Adonijah was afraid of Solomon, and went into the temple of God and took hold of the horns of the altar.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:51

## 1 Kings 1:53 (id: 164821)

**What did King Solomon tell Adonijah to do when they brought him before Solomon?**

King Solomon told Adonijah to go to his house.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 1:53

## 1 Kings 2:3 (id: 164822)

**What did King David tell his son Solomon?**

David told his son to always fear and obey God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:3

## 1 Kings 2:4 (id: 164823)

**What was Yahweh’s promise to David?**

Yahweh promised that David would never cease to have a man on Israel’s throne.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:4

## 1 Kings 2:6 (id: 164824)

**What did King David’s tell Solomon about Joab son of Zeruiah?**

King David told Solomon not to let him go down to the grave in peace.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:6

## 1 Kings 2:7 (id: 164825)

**What had the sons of Barzillai done for King David?**

The sons of Barzillai had come to David when he fled from Absalom.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:7

## 1 Kings 2:8 (id: 164826)

**What had Shimei done to King David?**

Shimei had violently cursed King David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:8

## 1 Kings 2:9 (id: 164827)

**What did Kind David tell Solomon to do to Shimei?**

David told Solomon not to let Shimei go free from punishment, but to bring him down to the grave with blood.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:9

## 1 Kings 2:11 (id: 164828)

**How long did King David reign over Israel?**

David reigned for forty years.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:11

## 1 Kings 2:15 (id: 164829)

**What did Adonijah say to Bathsheba when he came to her?**

Adonijah said that all Israel expected him to be King.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:15

## 1 Kings 2:16 (id: 164830)

**What did Adonijah request from Bathsheba?**

Adonijah requested that she ask Solomon for Abishag the Shunammite to be given to him as his wife.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:16

## 1 Kings 2:21 (id: 164831)

**Why did Bathsheba go to Solomon?**

Bathsheba went to Solomon to ask that Abishag would be given to Adonijah as his wife.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:21

## 1 Kings 2:23 (id: 164832)

**What did King Solomon say in response to Bathsheba?**

Solomon said that Adonijah had spoken this request at the cost of his life.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:23

## 1 Kings 2:25 (id: 164833)

**Who did King Solomon send to execute Adonijah?**

Solomon sent Benaiah son of Jehoiada to execute him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:25

## 1 Kings 2:27 (id: 164834)

**What did King Solomon tell Abiathar the priest to do?**

Solomon told Abiathar to go back to his fields and dismissed him from being priest.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:27

## 1 Kings 2:28 (id: 164835)

**Where did Joab go to flee from Solomon?**

Joab fled to the tent of Yahweh and took hold of the horns of the altar.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:28

## 1 Kings 2:29 (id: 164836)

**What did King Solomon send Benaiah son of Jehoiada to do?**

Solomon sent him to kill Joab.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:29

## 1 Kings 2:30 (id: 164837)

**What did Joab say to Benaiah the son of Jehoiada?**

Joab told him that he would not come out of the temple and would die at the altar.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:30

## 1 Kings 2:31 (id: 164838)

**What did King Solomon tell Benaiah to do to Joab?**

Solomon told Benaiah to do as Joab asked.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:31

## 1 Kings 2:33 (id: 164839)

**Why did King Solomon want Joab to be killed?**

Solomon wanted Joab to be killed because Joab attacked and killed Abner and Amasa without King David knowing about it.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:33

## 1 Kings 2:35 (id: 164840)

**What did King Solomon do to reward Benaiah son of Jehoiada?**

Solomon put him in charge of the army.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:35

## 1 Kings 2:36 (id: 164841)

**Where did King Solomon allow Shimei to live?**

Solomon told Shimei that he could live in Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:36

## 1 Kings 2:37 (id: 164842)

**What warning did King Solomon give to Shimei when he allowed him to live in Jerusalem?**

Solomon told Shimei that if he left Jerusalem to go any other place, he would be killed.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:37

## 1 Kings 2:40 (id: 164843)

**Why did Shimei saddle his donkey and leave Jerusalem to go to Gath?**

Shimei went to Gath to bring back two of his servants who had run away from him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:40

## 1 Kings 2:44 (id: 164844)

**What did King Solomon say that Shimei had done to Yahweh?**

Solomon told Shimei that he had not kept his oath to Yahweh, and that Yahweh would return his wickedness back on his own head.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:44

## 1 Kings 2:46 (id: 164845)

**What did King Solomon do when he was told that Shimei had left Jerusalem?**

Solomon told Benaiah the son of Jehoiada to kill Shimei.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 2:46

## 1 Kings 3:1 (id: 164846)

**How did King Solomon ally himself with Pharaoh king of Egypt?**

Solomon allied himself to Pharaoh by marrying his daughter.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 3:1

## 1 Kings 3:3 (id: 164847)

**What thing did King Solomon do that was not a statute of Yahweh?**

Solomon sacrificed and burned incense at the shrines.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 3:3

## 1 Kings 3:4 (id: 164848)

**Where was the great shrine located?**

The great shrine was located in Gibeon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 3:4

## 1 Kings 3:5 (id: 164849)

**How did Yahweh appear to King Solomon?**

Yahweh appeared to Solomon in a dream at night.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 3:5

## 1 Kings 3:9 (id: 164850)

**What did King Solomon ask of Yahweh?**

Solomon asked Yahweh to give him an understanding heart to judge his people.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 3:9

## 1 Kings 3:10 (id: 164851)

**Did King Solomon’s request please the Lord?**

Yes, Solomon’s request pleased the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 3:10

## 1 Kings 3:12 (id: 164852)

**What did God give to King Solomon?**

God gave Solomon a wise and understanding heart so that there was no one else like him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 3:12

## 1 Kings 3:13 (id: 164853)

**Did God give King Solomon something for which he did not ask?**

Yes, God gave Solomon both riches and honor.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 3:13

## 1 Kings 3:14 (id: 164854)

**What did God say he would do if Solomon walked in God’s statutes and commands as King David did?**

God said he would lengthen Solomon’s days.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 3:14

## 1 Kings 3:15 (id: 164855)

**What did King Solomon do after he woke up from sleeping?**

Solomon came to Jerusalem and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings and made a feast for his servants.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 3:15

## 1 Kings 3:16 (id: 164856)

**Who came and stood before King Solomon?**

Two women who were prostitutes came and stood before Solomon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 3:16

## 1 Kings 3:20 (id: 164857)

**What did the one woman say to King Solomon?**

The one woman said that the other woman took her living son from her and laid the other woman’s dead son at her breast while she slept.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 3:20

## 1 Kings 3:25 (id: 164858)

**What command did King Solomon give to his servants?**

Solomon said to bring a sword and divide the living child in two and give the parts to the two women.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 3:25

## 1 Kings 3:26 (id: 164859)

**What did the first woman say to King Solomon?**

The first woman said to give the living child to the second woman and not kill it.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 3:26

## 1 Kings 3:27 (id: 164860)

**What did King Solomon say to do with the living child?**

Solomon said to give the living child to the first woman and by no means kill it.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 3:27

## 1 Kings 3:28 (id: 164861)

**What did all of Israel do when they heard of the judgement the king had given?**

All of Israel feared the king because they saw the wisdom that God gave him for giving judgments.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 3:28

## 1 Kings 4:1 (id: 164862)

**Was Solomon king over all Israel?**

Yes, Solomon was king over all Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 4:1

## 1 Kings 4:5 (id: 164863)

**Did King Solomon have officials and officers?**

King Solomon had many men who were officials and officers.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 4:5

## 1 Kings 4:7 (id: 164864)

**How long did each of Solomon’s officers provide food for his household?**

Each officer had to make provision for one month of the year.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 4:7

## 1 Kings 4:20 (id: 164865)

**How numerous were Judah and Israel?**

Judah and Israel were as numerous as the sand by the sea.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 4:20

## 1 Kings 4:21 (id: 164866)

**How far did Solomon rule?**

Solomon ruled over the kingdoms from the River to the land of the Philistines to the border of Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 4:21

## 1 Kings 4:22–23 (id: 164867)

**What was Solomon’s provision for one day?**

Solomon’s provision for one day included flour, meal, oxen, sheep, deer, gazelles, roebucks, and fattened fowl.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 4:22–1KI 4:23

## 1 Kings 4:25 (id: 164868)

**How did Judah and Israel live all of the days of Solomon?**

Judah and Israel lived in safety, every man under his vine and under his fig tree all the days of Solomon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 4:25

## 1 Kings 4:26 (id: 164869)

**How many stalls of horses did Solomon have for his chariots?**

Solomon had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 4:26

## 1 Kings 4:28 (id: 164870)

**What was brought for Solomon’s horses?**

Barley and straw were brought for the chariot horses and the riding horses.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 4:28

## 1 Kings 4:29 (id: 164871)

**What did God give to Solomon?**

God gave Solomon great wisdom and understanding.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 4:29

## 1 Kings 4:31 (id: 164872)

**How far did Solomon’s fame reach?**

Solomon’s fame reached to all of the surrounding nations.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 4:31

## 1 Kings 4:32 (id: 164873)

**How many proverbs and songs did Solomon have?**

Solomon had three thousand proverbs and one thousand and five songs.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 4:32

## 1 Kings 4:34 (id: 164874)

**How far did people come to hear the wisdom of Solomon?**

People came from all the nations to hear the wisdom of Solomon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 4:34

## 1 Kings 5:1 (id: 164875)

**Who sent servants to Solomon?**

Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants to Solomon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 5:1

## 1 Kings 5:3 (id: 164876)

**Why was David not able to build a house for the name of Yahweh?**

David was not able to build a house for the name of Yahweh because of wars.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 5:3

## 1 Kings 5:5 (id: 164877)

**What did Yahweh tell David?**

Yahweh told David, “your son whom I will set on the throne will build a temple for my name.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 5:5

## 1 Kings 5:6 (id: 164878)

**What did Solomon ask Hiram to do?**

Solomon asked Hiram to command his servants to cut cedars from Lebanon for him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 5:6

## 1 Kings 5:7 (id: 164879)

**What did Hiram do when he heard Solomon’s words?**

Hiram rejoiced greatly and said, “May Yahweh be blessed today.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 5:7

## 1 Kings 5:8 (id: 164880)

**Did Hiram do what Solomon asked him to do?**

Yes, Hiram sent word saying, “I will do all you desire concerning the timber of cedar and cypress.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 5:8

## 1 Kings 5:9 (id: 164881)

**What would Hiram’s servants do with the trees?**

Hiram’s servants brought the trees down from Lebanon to the sea where they were made into rafts.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 5:9

## 1 Kings 5:9 (#2) (id: 164882)

**What was Hiram’s desire?**

Hiram desired that Solomon would give food for his household.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 5:9

## 1 Kings 5:11 (id: 164883)

**What food did Solomon give to Hiram?**

Solomon gave Hiram twenty thousand measures of wheat and twenty measures of pure oil every year.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 5:11

## 1 Kings 5:12 (id: 164884)

**Was there peace between Hiram and Solomon?**

Yes, there was peace between Hiram and Solomon and the two of them made a covenant.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 5:12

## 1 Kings 5:13 (id: 164885)

**How many forced laborers did Solomon have out of Israel?**

Solomon had thirty thousand forced laborers out of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 5:13

## 1 Kings 5:14 (id: 164886)

**Who did Solomon put over all of the forced laborers?**

Solomon put Adoniram over all of the forced laborers.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 5:14

## 1 Kings 5:16 (id: 164887)

**Did Solomon have men who supervised all of the workers?**

Yes, Solomon had 3,300 chief officers who were over the work and supervised the workers.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 5:16

## 1 Kings 5:17 (id: 164888)

**What did the workers quarry for the foundation of the house of Yahweh?**

The workers quarried large stones for the foundation of the house of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 5:17

## 1 Kings 6:1 (id: 164889)

**When did Solomon begin building the temple of Yahweh?**

Solomon began building the temple of Yahweh in the 480th year after the people of Israel came out of Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 6:1

## 1 Kings 6:2 (id: 164890)

**What were the dimensions of the temple that Solomon built for Yahweh?**

The temple that Solomon built was sixty cubits long, twenty cubits wide, and thirty cubits high.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 6:2

## 1 Kings 6:4 (id: 164891)

**Did Solomon make windows for the house?**

Yes, Solomon made framed windows for the house.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 6:4

## 1 Kings 6:7 (id: 164892)

**Where were the stones for the house prepared?**

The stones for the house were prepared at the quarry.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 6:7

## 1 Kings 6:9 (id: 164893)

**What did Solomon use to cover the house?**

Solomon covered the house with beams and planks of cedar.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 6:9

## 1 Kings 6:10 (id: 164894)

**How were the side rooms joined to the house?**

The side rooms were joined to the house with timbers of cedar.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 6:10

## 1 Kings 6:13 (id: 164895)

**Did Yahweh promise to live among the people of Israel?**

Yes, Yahweh promised to live among the people of Israel and to not leave them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 6:13

## 1 Kings 6:15 (id: 164896)

**What did Solomon use to build the interior walls of the house?**

Solomon used boards of cedar to build the interior walls of the house.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 6:15

## 1 Kings 6:17 (id: 164897)

**What was the length of the main hall of the house?**

The main hall of the house was forty cubits long.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 6:17

## 1 Kings 6:19 (id: 164898)

**Why did Solomon prepare the most holy place inside the house?**

Solomon prepared the most holy place inside the house in order to place the ark of the covenant of Yahweh there.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 6:19

## 1 Kings 6:22 (id: 164899)

**What did Solomon use to overlay the inside of the temple and the altar of the most holy place?**

Solomon overlaid the entire interior of the temple and the altar of the most holy place with gold.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 6:22

## 1 Kings 6:23 (id: 164900)

**What was the height of the cherubim that Solomon made for the most holy place?**

Solomon made the two cherubim for the most holy place ten cubits high.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 6:23

## 1 Kings 6:27 (id: 164901)

**Where did Solomon place the cherubim he had made?**

Solomon placed the cherubim in the innermost room.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 6:27

## 1 Kings 6:29 (id: 164902)

**What did Solomon carve on the walls of the house?**

Solomon carved figures of cherubim, palm trees, and open flowers on the walls of the house.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 6:29

## 1 Kings 6:31 (id: 164903)

**Did Solomon make doors for the entrance to the holy place?**

Yes, Solomon made doors of olive wood for the entrance to the holy place.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 6:31

## 1 Kings 6:38 (id: 164904)

**How long did Solomon take to build the temple?**

Solomon took seven years to build the temple.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 6:38

## 1 Kings 7:1 (id: 164905)

**How long did Solomon take to build his own palace?**

Solomon took thirteen years to build his own palace.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:1

## 1 Kings 7:2 (id: 164906)

**What forest did Solomon use to build his palace?**

Solomon built his palace from the forest of Lebanon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:2

## 1 Kings 7:6 (id: 164907)

**How big was the colonnade at Solomon’s palace?**

The colonnade at Solomon’s palace was fifty cubits long and thirty cubits wide.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:6

## 1 Kings 7:7 (id: 164908)

**What was Solomon’s hall of justice covered with?**

Solomon’s hall of justice was covered from floor to floor with cedar.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:7

## 1 Kings 7:8 (id: 164909)

**What did Solomon build for his wife, Pharaoh’s daughter?**

Solomon built a house like his own for Pharaoh’s daughter, his wife.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:8

## 1 Kings 7:10 (id: 164910)

**How big were the foundation stones of the buildings?**

The foundation stones used for the buildings were eight and ten cubits in length.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:10

## 1 Kings 7:12 (id: 164911)

**How many rows of cut stones did the great courtyard surrounding the palace have?**

The great courtyard surrounding the palace had three rows of cut stones.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:12

## 1 Kings 7:14 (id: 164912)

**Who came to work with bronze for king Solomon?**

Huram came from Tyre to work for king Solomon with bronze.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:14

## 1 Kings 7:15 (id: 164913)

**How many pillars of bronze did Huram make?**

Huram made two pillars of bronze.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:15

## 1 Kings 7:20 (id: 164914)

**What was included at the very top of the pillars?**

There were two hundred pomegranates in rows at the top of the pillars.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:20

## 1 Kings 7:25 (id: 164915)

**How many oxen did the sea stand on?**

The sea stood on twelve oxen with three looking north, south, east and west.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:25

## 1 Kings 7:27 (id: 164916)

**What was the height of the ten bronze stands that Huram made?**

The height of each of the ten stands was three cubits.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:27

## 1 Kings 7:33 (id: 164917)

**What were the wheels underneath the panels made of?**

The wheels underneath the panels were made of cast metal.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:33

## 1 Kings 7:38 (id: 164918)

**How much water could each of Huram’s basins hold?**

Huram’s basins held forty baths of water per basin.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:38

## 1 Kings 7:40 (id: 164919)

**Did Huram finish the work in the temple of Yahweh?**

Yes, Huram finished all of the work that he did for King Solomon in the temple of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:40

## 1 Kings 7:42 (id: 164920)

**How many pomegranates did Huram make for the decorative latticework?**

Huram made four hundred pomegranates for the decorative latticework.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:42

## 1 Kings 7:48 (id: 164921)

**What did Solomon use to make all of the furnishings in the temple of Yahweh?**

Solomon used gold to make all of the furnishings in the temple of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:48

## 1 Kings 7:51 (id: 164922)

**What did Solomon put in the storerooms of the house of Yahweh?**

Solomon put into the storerooms all of the silver, gold and furnishings that David his father had dedicated.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 7:51

## 1 Kings 8:1 (id: 164923)

**Why did Solomon assemble the leaders of Israel before himself?**

Solomon assembled the leaders of Israel to bring up the ark of the covenant of Yahweh from the city of David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:1

## 1 Kings 8:2 (id: 164924)

**Who assembled before King Solomon at the feast?**

All the men of Israel assembled before King Solomon at the feast.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:2

## 1 Kings 8:3 (id: 164925)

**Who took up the ark?**

The priests took up the ark.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:3

## 1 Kings 8:5 (id: 164926)

**What was sacrificed before the ark?**

King Solomon sacrificed sheep and oxen that could not be counted before the ark.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:5

## 1 Kings 8:6 (id: 164927)

**To where did the priests bring the ark of the covenant of Yahweh?**

The priests brought the ark of the covenant of Yahweh into the most holy place.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:6

## 1 Kings 8:11 (id: 164928)

**What filled the house of Yahweh?**

The glory of Yahweh filled his house.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:11

## 1 Kings 8:14 (id: 164929)

**What did the king do for the assembly of Israel?**

The king blessed all of the assembly of Israel while they were standing.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:14

## 1 Kings 8:19 (id: 164930)

**What had Yahweh told David?**

Yahweh told David that his son would build the house for his name.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:19

## 1 Kings 8:22 (id: 164931)

**What did Solomon do before the altar of Yahweh?**

Solomon stood before the altar of Yahweh and spread out his hands.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:22

## 1 Kings 8:26 (id: 164932)

**What did Solomon pray and ask of Yahweh?**

Solomon prayed that the promise Yahweh made to David would come true.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:26

## 1 Kings 8:29 (id: 164933)

**What did Solomon pray for Yahweh to do?**

Solomon prayed that Yahweh would have his eyes on the temple both day and night.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:29

## 1 Kings 8:30 (id: 164934)

**Where would Yahweh listen from when Israel prayed to him?**

Yahweh would listen from the heavens, the place where he lived.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:30

## 1 Kings 8:32 (id: 164935)

**What did Solomon ask Yahweh to do for the righteous person?**

Solomon asked that the righteous would be declared innocent and rewarded according to his righteousness.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:32

## 1 Kings 8:33 (id: 164936)

**When would Israel be defeated by an enemy?**

Israel would be defeated by an enemy when they sinned against Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:33

## 1 Kings 8:35 (id: 164937)

**Why would the skies be shut and no rain fall?**

The skies would be shut and rain not fall because the people sinned against Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:35

## 1 Kings 8:40 (id: 164938)

**Why did Solomon ask Yahweh to listen from heaven and forgive the sins of the people?**

Solomon asked Yahweh to forgive the people so they would fear Him all of the days they lived on the land.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:40

## 1 Kings 8:41 (id: 164939)

**Why would a foreigner come from a distant country?**

A foreigner would come from a distant country because of Yahweh’s name.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:41

## 1 Kings 8:43 (id: 164940)

**Why did Solomon ask Yahweh to do whatever the foreigner asks him to do?**

Solomon asked Yahweh to do whatever the foreigner asks him to do so that all people groups would know his name and fear him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:43

## 1 Kings 8:46 (id: 164941)

**Why would an enemy carry Israel away captive to their land?**

An enemy would carry Israel away captive because Yahweh was angry with Israel and handed them over to their enemy.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:46

## 1 Kings 8:47 (id: 164942)

**What would the Israelites say in the land of their enemy?**

The Israelites would say, “We have acted wickedly and sinned. We have behaved wickedly.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:47

## 1 Kings 8:48 (id: 164943)

**What would the Israelites do in the land of their enemy?**

The Israelites would return to Yahweh with all their heart and all their soul and pray toward Him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:48

## 1 Kings 8:50 (id: 164944)

**What did Solomon ask Yahweh to do when his people prayed to Him?**

Solomon asked Yahweh to forgive his people and to have compassion on them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:50

## 1 Kings 8:51 (id: 164945)

**From where did Yahweh rescue his people?**

Yahweh rescued his people from out of Egypt as out of a furnace.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:51

## 1 Kings 8:52 (id: 164946)

**What did Solomon ask Yahweh to do when his people cried to him?**

Solomon asked Yahweh to open His eyes to their requests and to listen to them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:52

## 1 Kings 8:53 (id: 164947)

**Why did Yahweh separate his people from among all the peoples of the earth?**

Yahweh separated his people from among all the peoples of the earth to belong to him and to receive his promises.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:53

## 1 Kings 8:55 (id: 164948)

**What did Solomon do after he finished all his prayer and request to Yahweh?**

After he finished his prayer, Solomon stood and blessed all the assembly of Israel in a loud voice.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:55

## 1 Kings 8:60 (id: 164949)

**What did Solomon want all peoples of the earth to know?**

Solomon wanted all the peoples of the earth to know that Yahweh is God and there is no other God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:60

## 1 Kings 8:61 (id: 164950)

**What did Solomon tell Yahweh’s people to do?**

Solomon told them to keep their heart true to Yahweh and to walk in his statutes and commandments.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:61

## 1 Kings 8:62 (id: 164951)

**Who offered sacrifices to Yahweh?**

The king and all Israel with him offered sacrifices to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:62

## 1 Kings 8:63 (id: 164952)

**How many oxen and sheep did Solomon sacrifice?**

Solomon sacrificed 22,000 oxen and 120,000 sheep to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:63

## 1 Kings 8:64 (id: 164953)

**Why did the king consecrate the courtyard that was in front of the temple of Yahweh?**

The king consecrated the courtyard because the bronze altar before Yahweh was too small for all of the offerings.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:64

## 1 Kings 8:66 (id: 164954)

**When did the king send the people away back to their homes?**

On the eighth day, the king sent the people back to their homes.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 8:66

## 1 Kings 9:2 (id: 164955)

**After Solomon finished building the house of Yahweh, what did Yahweh do?**

When Solomon finished the house of Yahweh, he appeared to Solomon a second time.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:2

## 1 Kings 9:3 (id: 164956)

**What did Yahweh say to Solomon?**

Yahweh said to Solomon, “I have heard your prayer and request you made before me.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:3

## 1 Kings 9:4 (id: 164957)

**What did Yahweh want Solomon to obey?**

Yahweh wanted Solomon to obey all the commandments and decrees that he had commanded him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:4

## 1 Kings 9:5 (id: 164958)

**What did Yahweh promise to David, Solomon’s father?**

Yahweh promised to establish the throne of David’s kingdom over Israel forever.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:5

## 1 Kings 9:7 (id: 164959)

**What did Yahweh tell Solomon he would do if Solomon did not keep his commandments?**

Yahweh told Solomon that he would cut off Israel from the ground that he had given them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:7

## 1 Kings 9:8 (id: 164960)

**What would people ask when they passed by the temple of Yahweh?**

People would ask, “Why has Yahweh done this to this land and to this house?”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:8

## 1 Kings 9:9 (id: 164961)

**Why would Yahweh bring this disaster on them?**

Yahweh would bring disaster on them because they rebelled against their God and worshiped other gods.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:9

## 1 Kings 9:10 (id: 164962)

**What happened at the end of twenty years?**

At the end of twenty years, Solomon finished building the temple of Yahweh and the king’s palace.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:10

## 1 Kings 9:11 (id: 164963)

**With what did Hiram king of Tyre furnish Solomon?**

Hiram king of Tyre furnished Solomon with cedar trees, pine trees, and gold.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:11

## 1 Kings 9:12 (id: 164964)

**What did Hiram come from Tyre to see?**

Hiram came from Tyre to see the cities that Solomon had given him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:12

## 1 Kings 9:13 (id: 164965)

**What did Hiram call the cities which Solomon had given him?**

Hiram called the cites the land of Cabul which means worthless.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:13

## 1 Kings 9:14 (id: 164966)

**How much gold did Hiram send to king Solomon?**

Hiram had sent 120 talents of gold to the king.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:14

## 1 Kings 9:15 (id: 164967)

**What did Solomon have built at Hazor, Megiddo, and Gezer?**

Solomon had defenses built at Hazor, Megiddo, and Gezer.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:15

## 1 Kings 9:16 (id: 164968)

**What did Pharaoh king of Egypt do at Gezer?**

Pharaoh king of Egypt took Gezer and burned it, and also killed the Canaanites in the city.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:16

## 1 Kings 9:17 (id: 164969)

**What did Solomon do at Gezer and Beth Horon?**

Solomon rebuilt Gezer and Beth Horon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:17

## 1 Kings 9:21 (id: 164970)

**What did Solomon do with the people in the land who were not of Israel?**

The people in the land who were not of Israel Solomon made into forced laborers.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:21

## 1 Kings 9:22 (id: 164971)

**What did Solomon do with the people of Israel?**

Solomon made the people of Israel become soldiers, servants, officials, officers and commanders.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:22

## 1 Kings 9:23 (id: 164972)

**How many chief officers did Solomon have?**

Solomon had 550 chief officers who were over the supervisors.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:23

## 1 Kings 9:25 (id: 164973)

**What did Solomon offer three times a year?**

Solomon offered burnt offerings and peace offerings on the altar of Yahweh three times a year.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:25

## 1 Kings 9:26 (id: 164974)

**What did Solomon do at Ezion Geber?**

Solomon built a fleet of ships at Ezion Geber.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:26

## 1 Kings 9:28 (id: 164975)

**Why did Solomon send servants to Ophir?**

Solomon sent servants to Ophir to bring back gold.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 9:28

## 1 Kings 10:1 (id: 164976)

**Why did the queen of Sheba come to Solomon?**

The queen of Sheba came to Solomon to test him with hard questions.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:1

## 1 Kings 10:2 (id: 164977)

**What did the queen of Sheba bring to Jerusalem?**

The queen of Sheba brought spices, gold, and precious gemstones to Jerusalem with her.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:2

## 1 Kings 10:3 (id: 164978)

**How many of the queen’s questions did Solomon answer?**

Solomon answered all of the questions of the queen of Sheba.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:3

## 1 Kings 10:5 (id: 164979)

**How did the queen of Sheba react when she saw all of Solomon’s wisdom?**

When the queen of Sheba saw all of Solomon’s wisdom there was no more spirit in her.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:5

## 1 Kings 10:7 (id: 164980)

**What did the queen of Sheba say to Solomon?**

The queen of Sheba said to Solomon, “You have exceeded the fame that I heard about you.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:7

## 1 Kings 10:8 (id: 164981)

**Why did the queen of Sheba say that Solomon’s servants were blessed?**

The queen of Sheba said that Solomon’s servants were blessed because they heard his wisdom.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:8

## 1 Kings 10:9 (id: 164982)

**How did Yahweh show his love to Israel?**

Yahweh showed his love for Israel by making Solomon king.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:9

## 1 Kings 10:10 (id: 164983)

**What did the queen of Sheba give to Solomon?**

The queen of Sheba gave to Solomon 120 talents of gold, spices, and precious stones.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:10

## 1 Kings 10:11 (id: 164984)

**What did the fleet of Hiram bring from Ophir?**

The fleet of Hiram brought gold from Ophir.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:11

## 1 Kings 10:12 (id: 164985)

**What did the king make for the temple of Yahweh?**

The king made almug wood pillars for the temple of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:12

## 1 Kings 10:13 (id: 164986)

**What did King Solomon give to the queen of Sheba?**

King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba everything she asked for.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:13

## 1 Kings 10:14 (id: 164987)

**What was the weight of the gold that came to King Solomon in one year?**

The weight of the gold that came to King Solomon in one year was 666 talents.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:14

## 1 Kings 10:15 (id: 164988)

**Who brought gold and silver to Solomon?**

The kings of Arabia and governors in the country brought gold and silver to Solomon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:15

## 1 Kings 10:16 (id: 164989)

**How many large shields of beaten gold did King Solomon make?**

King Solomon made two hundred shields of beaten gold.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:16

## 1 Kings 10:17 (id: 164990)

**Where did King Solomon put three hundred shields of beaten gold?**

King Solomon put three hundred shields of beaten gold into the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:17

## 1 Kings 10:18 (id: 164991)

**What did the king make out of ivory and finest gold?**

The king made a great throne of ivory and the finest gold.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:18

## 1 Kings 10:19 (id: 164992)

**What was standing beside the armrests of the throne that the king made?**

Two lions were standing beside the armrests of the throne that the king made.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:19

## 1 Kings 10:20 (id: 164993)

**What stood on the side of the six steps at the throne?**

Twelve lions were standing on the sides of the six steps at the throne.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:20

## 1 Kings 10:21 (id: 164994)

**Of what were the drinking cups in the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon made?**

The drinking cups in the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon were made of pure gold.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:21

## 1 Kings 10:22 (id: 164995)

**What did the king’s ships bring every three years?**

Every three years, the king’s ships brought gold, silver, ivory, apes, and baboons.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:22

## 1 Kings 10:24 (id: 164996)

**Why did all the earth seek out Solomon?**

All the earth sought out Solomon to hear the wisdom God put in his heart.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:24

## 1 Kings 10:25 (id: 164997)

**What tribute did Solomon’s visitors bring to him?**

Those who visited brought tribute such as gold, silver, clothing, armor, and spices.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:25

## 1 Kings 10:26 (id: 164998)

**Where did Solomon station his chariots and horsemen?**

Solomon stationed his chariots and horsemen in the chariot cities and in Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:26

## 1 Kings 10:27 (id: 164999)

**What did the king do with cedar wood?**

The king made cedar wood become as abundant as the sycamore fig trees in the lowlands.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:27

## 1 Kings 10:28 (id: 165000)

**From where were Solomon’s horses brought?**

Solomon’s horses were brought from Egypt and Cilicia.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:28

## 1 Kings 10:29 (id: 165001)

**What was the purchase price of each chariot Solomon owned?**

The chariots were purchased for six hundred shekels of silver each.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 10:29

## 1 Kings 11:1 (id: 165002)

**Whom did King Solomon love?**

King Solomon loved many foreign women.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:1

## 1 Kings 11:2 (id: 165003)

**What did Yahweh command about marrying women from foreign nations?**

Yahweh commanded Israel not to marry women from foreign nations.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:2

## 1 Kings 11:3 (id: 165004)

**What did Solomon’s wives do to his heart?**

Solomon’s wives turned his heart away.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:3

## 1 Kings 11:4 (id: 165005)

**How was David’s heart toward Yahweh?**

David’s heart was fully surrendered to Yahweh his God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:4

## 1 Kings 11:5 (id: 165006)

**What did Solomon follow?**

Solomon followed Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians and Milcom of the Ammonites.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:5

## 1 Kings 11:6 (id: 165007)

**What did Solomon do in the sight of Yahweh?**

Solomon did that which was evil in the sight of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:6

## 1 Kings 11:7 (id: 165008)

**What did Solomon build for Chemosh?**

Solomon built a shrine for Chemosh, the idol of Moab.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:7

## 1 Kings 11:8 (id: 165009)

**What did Solomon do at the shrines of his foreign wives?**

Solomon burned incense and sacrificed to their gods at the shrines.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:8

## 1 Kings 11:9 (id: 165010)

**How many times did Yahweh appear to Solomon?**

Yahweh appeared twice to Solomon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:9

## 1 Kings 11:10 (id: 165011)

**What did Yahweh command Solomon?**

Yahweh commanded Solomon to not go after foreign gods.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:10

## 1 Kings 11:11 (id: 165012)

**What did Yahweh tell Solomon he would do because of the foreign gods?**

Yahweh told Solomon he would tear the kingdom from him and give it to his servant.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:11

## 1 Kings 11:13 (id: 165013)

**How many tribes did Yahweh promise to give to Solomon’s son?**

Yahweh promised to give one tribe to Solomon’s son.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:13

## 1 Kings 11:14 (id: 165014)

**Whom did Yahweh raise up as an adversary to Solomon?**

Yahweh raised up Hadad the Edomite as an adversary to Solomon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:14

## 1 Kings 11:15 (id: 165015)

**Who went up to bury the dead who had been killed in Edom?**

Joab the captain of the army went up to bury the dead who were killed in Edom.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:15

## 1 Kings 11:16 (id: 165016)

**How long did Joab and Israel remain in Edom?**

Joab and Israel remained in Edom six months.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:16

## 1 Kings 11:17 (id: 165017)

**To where was Hadad taken?**

Hadad was taken to Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:17

## 1 Kings 11:19 (id: 165018)

**Whom did Pharaoh give as a wife to Hadad?**

Pharaoh gave to Hadad the sister of Queen Tahpenes as his wife.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:19

## 1 Kings 11:20 (id: 165019)

**What was the name of Hadad’s son?**

Hadad’s son was named Genubath.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:20

## 1 Kings 11:21 (id: 165020)

**What did Hadad ask of Pharaoh?**

Hadad asked Pharaoh if he might depart and go to his own country.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:21

## 1 Kings 11:23 (id: 165021)

**What was the name of another adversary that God raised up against Solomon?**

God raised up another adversary to Solomon named Rezon son of Eliada.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:23

## 1 Kings 11:24 (id: 165022)

**To where did Rezon’s men travel?**

Rezon’s men went to Damascus and lived there.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:24

## 1 Kings 11:25 (id: 165023)

**How long was Rezon an enemy of Israel?**

Rezon was an enemy of Israel all of the days of Solomon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:25

## 1 Kings 11:26 (id: 165024)

**Who lifted up his hand against the king?**

Jeroboam the son of Nebat lifted up his hand against the king.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:26

## 1 Kings 11:27 (id: 165025)

**Why did Jeroboam lift up his hand against the king?**

Jeroboam the son of Nebat lifted up his hand against the king because he built the Millo and repaired the wall of the city of David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:27

## 1 Kings 11:28 (id: 165026)

**What did Solomon give Jeroboam command over?**

Solomon gave Jeroboam command over all the labor of the house of Joseph.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:28

## 1 Kings 11:29 (id: 165027)

**Who found Jeroboam on the road as he went out of Jerusalem?**

The prophet Ahijah found Jeroboam on the road as he went out of Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:29

## 1 Kings 11:30 (id: 165028)

**What did Ahijah do to Jeroboam’s new garment?**

Ahijah grabbed his new garment and tore it into twelve pieces.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:30

## 1 Kings 11:31 (id: 165029)

**What did Yahweh say about Solomon’s kingdom?**

Yahweh said that He would tear the kingdom out of Solomon’s hand.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:31

## 1 Kings 11:32 (id: 165030)

**How many tribes would Solomon keep?**

Solomon would keep one tribe for the sake of David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:32

## 1 Kings 11:34 (id: 165031)

**How long did Yahweh make Solomon to be ruler?**

Yahweh made Solomon ruler all the days of his life.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:34

## 1 Kings 11:36 (id: 165032)

**In which city did Yahweh choose to put his name?**

Yahweh chose to put his name in the city of Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:36

## 1 Kings 11:38 (id: 165033)

**What did Yahweh promise to do for Jeroboam if he walked in his ways?**

Yahweh promised to give Jeroboam a sure house and also give Israel to him if he walked in his ways.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:38

## 1 Kings 11:40 (id: 165034)

**What did Solomon try to do to Jeroboam?**

Solomon tried to kill Jeroboam.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:40

## 1 Kings 11:42 (id: 165035)

**How long did Solomon reign in Jerusalem?**

Solomon reigned in Jerusalem for forty years.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:42

## 1 Kings 11:43 (id: 165036)

**Who became king in Solomon’s place?**

Rehoboam became king in Solomon’s place.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 11:43

## 1 Kings 12:1 (id: 165037)

**Why did Rehoboam go to Shechem?**

Rehoboam went to Shechem because all Israel was coming there to make him king.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:1

## 1 Kings 12:3 (id: 165038)

**Who came with the assembly of Israel to speak to Rehoboam?**

Jeroboam the son of Nebat came with the assembly of Israel to speak to Rehoboam.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:3

## 1 Kings 12:4 (id: 165039)

**What did Israel ask of Rehoboam?**

All Israel asked that Rehoboam would lighten the heavy yoke his father had put on them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:4

## 1 Kings 12:5 (id: 165040)

**For how many days did Rehoboam send the people away?**

Rehoboam sent the people away for three days.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:5

## 1 Kings 12:6 (id: 165041)

**With whom did Rehoboam consult?**

Rehoboam consulted with the older men who stood before Solomon his father.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:6

## 1 Kings 12:7 (id: 165042)

**What did the older men say to Rehoboam?**

The older men said that Rehoboam should say good words to the people of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:7

## 1 Kings 12:8 (id: 165043)

**What did Rehoboam do with the advice the older men gave him?**

Rehoboam ignored the advice of the older men.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:8

## 1 Kings 12:10 (id: 165044)

**What did the younger men tell Rehoboam to say to the people?**

The younger men told Rehoboam to say, “My little finger is thicker than my father’s waist.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:10

## 1 Kings 12:11 (id: 165045)

**What did Rehoboam say he would use to punish the people?**

Rehoboam said he would use scorpions to punish the people.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:11

## 1 Kings 12:12 (id: 165046)

**What had the king instructed the people to do?**

The king had instructed the people to come back on the third day.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:12

## 1 Kings 12:13 (id: 165047)

**How did the king answer the people?**

The king answered the people roughly.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:13

## 1 Kings 12:14 (id: 165048)

**What did the king say he would do with the yoke on the people?**

The king said he would add to the yoke on the people.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:14

## 1 Kings 12:15 (id: 165049)

**Who brought about these events?**

These events were brought about by Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:15

## 1 Kings 12:16 (id: 165050)

**What did all Israel say when they saw that the king did not listen to them?**

All Israel said, “We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse; flee to your tents.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:16

## 1 Kings 12:17 (id: 165051)

**Over what people did Rehoboam become king?**

Rehoboam became king over the people of Israel who lived in the cities of Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:17

## 1 Kings 12:18 (id: 165052)

**What did Israel do to Adoram?**

All Israel stoned Adoram to death with stones.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:18

## 1 Kings 12:20 (id: 165053)

**Who followed the family of David?**

Only the tribe of Judah followed the family of David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:20

## 1 Kings 12:21 (id: 165054)

**Why did Rehoboam assemble the house of Judah in Jerusalem?**

Rehoboam assembled the house of Judah to fight against the house of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:21

## 1 Kings 12:22 (id: 165055)

**To whom did the word of God come?**

The word of God came to Shemaiah the man of God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:22

## 1 Kings 12:24 (id: 165056)

**What did Yahweh say?**

Yahweh said, “You must not attack or fight against your brothers the people of Israel.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:24

## 1 Kings 12:25 (id: 165057)

**Where did Jerohoam build Shechem?**

Jeroboam built Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:25

## 1 Kings 12:26 (id: 165058)

**What did Jeroboam think in his heart?**

Jeroboam thought in his heart, “Now the kingdom will return to the house of David.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:26

## 1 Kings 12:27 (id: 165059)

**What did Jeroboam say about the people offering sacrifices in the temple of Yahweh?**

Jeroboam said, “If these people offer sacrifices in the temple of Yahweh, they will kill me and return to Rehoboam king of Judah.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:27

## 1 Kings 12:28 (id: 165060)

**What did King Jeroboam make?**

King Jeroboam made two calves of gold.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:28

## 1 Kings 12:29 (id: 165061)

**Where did Jeroboam set up the two calves of gold?**

King Jeroboam set up one calf in Bethel and one in Dan.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:29

## 1 Kings 12:31 (id: 165062)

**What people did Jeroboam make into priests?**

Jeroboam made priests of the people who were not among the sons of Levi.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:31

## 1 Kings 12:32 (id: 165063)

**What did Jeroboam do at Bethel?**

Jeroboam ordained a feast at Bethel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:32

## 1 Kings 12:33 (id: 165064)

**What did Jeroboam do at the altar in Bethel?**

Jeroboam went up to the altar to burn incense.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 12:33

## 1 Kings 13:1 (id: 165065)

**Who came out of Judah by the word of Yahweh?**

A man of God came out of Judah by the word of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:1

## 1 Kings 13:2 (id: 165066)

**What did the man of God cry out against the altar at Bethel?**

The man of God cried out against the altar, “On you they will burn men’s bones.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:2

## 1 Kings 13:3 (id: 165067)

**What sign did the man of God give about the altar?**

The man of God gave a sign saying, “The altar will be split apart and the ashes on it will be poured out.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:3

## 1 Kings 13:4 (id: 165068)

**What happened to Jeroboam’s hand when he reached out from the altar?**

When Jeroboam reached out from the altar, his hand was dried up so he could not draw it back to himself.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:4

## 1 Kings 13:5 (id: 165069)

**What happened to the altar?**

The altar was split apart and the ashes poured out as the man of God described.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:5

## 1 Kings 13:6 (id: 165070)

**What happened when the man of God prayed to Yahweh about Jeroboam’s hand?**

When the man of God prayed to Yahweh, the king’s hand was restored and became as it was before.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:6

## 1 Kings 13:7 (id: 165071)

**What did the king say to the man of God?**

The king said to the man of God, “Come home with me and I will give you a reward.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:7

## 1 Kings 13:8 (id: 165072)

**What did the man of God say to the king?**

The man of God said to the king, “I will not go with you.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:8

## 1 Kings 13:10 (id: 165073)

**What did the man of God do after speaking with the king?**

After speaking with the king, the man of God returned home by a different way than he came to Bethel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:10

## 1 Kings 13:11 (id: 165074)

**Where did an old prophet live?**

An old prophet lived in Bethel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:11

## 1 Kings 13:12 (id: 165075)

**Who saw the way that the man of God had gone from Bethel?**

The old prophet’s sons saw the way that the man of God went to Bethel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:12

## 1 Kings 13:13 (id: 165076)

**Where did the old prophet find the man of God?**

The old prophet found the man of God sitting under an oak tree.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:13

## 1 Kings 13:15 (id: 165077)

**What did the old prophet say to the man of God?**

The old prophet said to the man of God, “Come home with me and eat food.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:15

## 1 Kings 13:16 (id: 165078)

**What was the man of God’s answer to the old prophet?**

The man of God answered, “I may not return with you or go in with you.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:16

## 1 Kings 13:17 (id: 165079)

**What was the old prophet’s answer to the man of God?**

The old prophet was lying to the man of God and answered, “An angel spoke by the word of Yahweh saying ‘Bring him back to your house.’”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:17

## 1 Kings 13:19 (id: 165080)

**Where did the man of God go after the old prophet lied to him?**

The man of God went back and ate food and drank water in his house.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:19

## 1 Kings 13:20 (id: 165081)

**What came to the old prophet as they sat at the table?**

The word of Yahweh came to the old prophet as they sat at the table.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:20

## 1 Kings 13:22 (id: 165082)

**What did the word of Yahweh say to the man of God?**

The word of Yahweh said, “Because you came back and ate food and drank water your body will not be buried in the tomb of your fathers.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:22

## 1 Kings 13:23 (id: 165083)

**What did the old prophet do after they ate?**

After they ate, the old prophet saddled the man of God’s donkey for him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:23

## 1 Kings 13:24 (id: 165084)

**What happened after the man of God had gone?**

After the man of God had gone, a lion met him on the road and killed him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:24

## 1 Kings 13:25 (id: 165085)

**What did men do when they saw the body of the man of God lying on the road?**

When men saw the man of God’s body lying on the road, they came back and told it in the city of the old prophet.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:25

## 1 Kings 13:26 (id: 165086)

**What was the old prophet’s answer to the men?**

The old prophet answered, “This is the man of God who was disobedient to the word of Yahweh.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:26

## 1 Kings 13:28 (id: 165087)

**What did the old prophet do after hearing the men?**

The old prophet spoke to his sons to saddle his donkey and he went and found the body left in the road.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:28

## 1 Kings 13:30 (id: 165088)

**What did the old prophet do with the body of the man of God?**

The old prophet took up the body of the man of God and buried him in his own grave.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:30

## 1 Kings 13:31 (id: 165089)

**What did the old prophet say to his sons about his own burial?**

The old prophet said to his sons, “When I am dead, bury me in the tomb in which the man of God is buried.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:31

## 1 Kings 13:34 (id: 165090)

**What thing became sin to the family of Jeroboam and caused it to be cut off from the face of the earth?**

Jeroboam did not turn away from evil and consecrated as priests whomever he would; this thing became sin to the family of Jeroboam.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 13:34

## 1 Kings 14:1 (id: 165091)

**What happened to Abijah the son of Jeroboam?**

Abijah the son of Jeroboam fell sick.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:1

## 1 Kings 14:2 (id: 165092)

**What did Jeroboam ask his wife to do?**

Jeroboam asked his wife to disguise herself and go to the prophet Ahijah in Shiloh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:2

## 1 Kings 14:3 (id: 165093)

**Why did Jeroboam ask his wife to go to the prophet Ahijah?**

Jeroboam asked his wife to go to the prophet Ahijah to find out what would happen to his sick son.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:3

## 1 Kings 14:4 (id: 165094)

**What was wrong with Ahijah’s eyes?**

Since Ahijah was old he was blind and his eyes could not see.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:4

## 1 Kings 14:5 (id: 165095)

**Who told Ahijah, “The wife of Jeroboam is coming to see you.”?**

Yahweh told Ahijah, “The wife of Jeroboam is coming to see you to seek advice concerning her son.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:5

## 1 Kings 14:6 (id: 165096)

**What did Ahijah say to the wife of Jeroboam?**

When Ahijan heard her come in at the door he said to her, “Why do you pretend to be someone that you are not?”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:6

## 1 Kings 14:8 (id: 165097)

**What did the God of Israel say about Jeroboam?**

The God of Israel said to Jeroboam, “You have not been like my servant David who kept my commandments.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:8

## 1 Kings 14:9 (id: 165098)

**What did Jeroboam do to provoke Yahweh to anger?**

Jeroboam cast metal images to provoke Yahweh to anger.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:9

## 1 Kings 14:10 (id: 165099)

**What disaster would Yahweh bring on Jeroboam?**

Yahweh said that he would cut off from him every male child in Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:10

## 1 Kings 14:11 (id: 165100)

**What would happen to anyone of Jeroboam’s family who died in the city?**

Anyone of Jeroboam’s family who died in the city would be eaten by dogs.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:11

## 1 Kings 14:13 (id: 165101)

**What would all Israel do for the child of Jeroboam?**

All Israel would mourn for and bury the child of Jeroboam.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:13

## 1 Kings 14:15 (id: 165102)

**How far did Yahweh say that he would scatter Israel?**

Yahweh said that he would scatter Israel beyond the Euphrates river.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:15

## 1 Kings 14:16 (id: 165103)

**What did Yahweh say that Jeroboam led Israel to do?**

Yahweh said that Jeroboam led Israel to sin.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:16

## 1 Kings 14:17 (id: 165104)

**What happened when Jeroboam’s wife came to the threshold of the house?**

When Jeroboam’s wife came to the threshold of the house, the child died.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:17

## 1 Kings 14:18 (id: 165105)

**What did all Israel do after the child died?**

All Israel mourned for him and buried him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:18

## 1 Kings 14:19 (id: 165106)

**Where were the other matters concerning Jeroboam written?**

The other matters concerning Jeroboam were written in the Book of the Events of the Kings of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:19

## 1 Kings 14:20 (id: 165107)

**How many years did Jeroboam reign before he slept with his fathers?**

Jeroboam reigned for twenty\-two years and slept with his fathers.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:20

## 1 Kings 14:21 (id: 165108)

**Who was reigning in Judah?**

Rehoboam the son of Solomon was reigning in Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:21

## 1 Kings 14:22 (id: 165109)

**How did Judah provoke Yahweh to jealousy?**

Judah provoked Yahweh to jealousy with the sins they committed.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:22

## 1 Kings 14:23 (id: 165110)

**What did Judah build on every high hill and under every green tree?**

Judah built shrines and Asherah poles on every high hill and under every green tree.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:23

## 1 Kings 14:24 (id: 165111)

**What despicable things did the nations do?**

The nations had male prostitutes in the land.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:24

## 1 Kings 14:25 (id: 165112)

**In what year did Shishak come up against Jerusalem?**

In the fifth year of king Rehoboam, Shishak came up against Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:25

## 1 Kings 14:26 (id: 165113)

**What shields did Shishak take away from Jerusalem?**

Shishak took the shields of gold that Solomon had made.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:26

## 1 Kings 14:27 (id: 165114)

**What did King Rehoboam do with the shields of bronze that he made?**

King Rehoboam entrusted them into the hands of the commander of the guard.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:27

## 1 Kings 14:28 (id: 165115)

**When would the guards carry the shields of bronze?**

Whenever the king entered the house of Yahweh, the guards would carry the shields.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:28

## 1 Kings 14:29 (id: 165116)

**Where were the other matters of King Rehoboam written?**

The other matters of King Rehoboam were written in The Book of the Events of the Kings of Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:29

## 1 Kings 14:31 (id: 165117)

**Who became king in Rehoboam’s place?**

Abijah, Rehoboam’s son, became king in his place.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 14:31

## 1 Kings 15:1 (id: 165118)

**When did Abijah begin to reign over Judah?**

Abijah began to reign over Judah in the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:1

## 1 Kings 15:2 (id: 165119)

**How long did Abijah rule in Jerusalem?**

Abijah ruled in Jerusalem for three years.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:2

## 1 Kings 15:3 (id: 165120)

**Was Abijah’s heart devoted to Yahweh his God?**

Abijah’s heart was not devoted to Yahweh his God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:3

## 1 Kings 15:4 (id: 165121)

**Why did Yahweh raise up a son for Abijah in Jerusalem?**

Yahweh raised up a son for Abijah to strengthen Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:4

## 1 Kings 15:5 (id: 165122)

**In what matter did David turn away from Yahweh?**

David only turned away from Yahweh in the matter of Uriah the Hittite.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:5

## 1 Kings 15:6 (id: 165123)

**What happened all the days of Abijah’s life?**

There was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of Abijah’s life.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:6

## 1 Kings 15:8 (id: 165124)

**When Abijah slept with his fathers who became king in his place?**

When Abijah slept with his fathers Asa became king in his place.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:8

## 1 Kings 15:9 (id: 165125)

**When did Asa begin to reign over Judah?**

Asa began to reign over Judah in the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:9

## 1 Kings 15:10 (id: 165126)

**How many years did Asa reign in Jerusalem?**

Asa reigned forty\-one years in Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:10

## 1 Kings 15:11 (id: 165127)

**What did Asa do in the eyes of Yahweh?**

Asa did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh as David had done.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:11

## 1 Kings 15:12 (id: 165128)

**What did Asa do in the land?**

Asa removed the male prostitutes and the idols his ancestors had made in the land.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:12

## 1 Kings 15:13 (id: 165129)

**Whom did Asa remove from being queen?**

Asa removed his own grandmother Maacah from being queen.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:13

## 1 Kings 15:14 (id: 165130)

**What was the condition of Asa’s heart toward Yahweh?**

Asa’s heart was completely devoted to Yahweh all his days.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:14

## 1 Kings 15:15 (id: 165131)

**What did Asa bring into the house of Yahweh?**

Asa brought consecrated things into the house of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:15

## 1 Kings 15:16 (id: 165132)

**With whom was Asa at war?**

Asa was at war with Baasha king of Israel all their days.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:16

## 1 Kings 15:17 (id: 165133)

**Why did Baasha build up Ramah?**

Baasha built up Ramah so that no one would enter into or leave the land of Asa.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:17

## 1 Kings 15:18 (id: 165134)

**What did Asa do with all the silver and gold from the storerooms of the house of Yahweh?**

Asa sent the silver and gold to Benhadad who lived in Damascus.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:18

## 1 Kings 15:19 (id: 165135)

**What did Asa say to Benhadad?**

Asa said to Benhadad, “Let there be a treaty between me and you, as there was between my father and your father.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:19

## 1 Kings 15:20 (id: 165136)

**What did Benhadad do after he listened to Asa?**

After he listened to Asa, Benhadad sent his armies to attack the cities of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:20

## 1 Kings 15:21 (id: 165137)

**What did Baasha do when he heard about this?**

When Baasha heard about the attacks, he stopped building up Ramah.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:21

## 1 Kings 15:22 (id: 165138)

**What did Asa do with the materials that were used to build up Ramah?**

Asa took the materials that were used to build up Ramah and used them to build up Geba and Mizpah.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:22

## 1 Kings 15:23 (id: 165139)

**Where were all of Asa’s matters written?**

All of Asa’s matters were written in The Book of the Events of the Kings of Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:23

## 1 Kings 15:24 (id: 165140)

**After Asa slept with his fathers, who became king in his place?**

After Asa slept with his fathers, his son Jehoshephat became king in his place.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:24

## 1 Kings 15:25 (id: 165141)

**Who began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa?**

Nadab the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:25

## 1 Kings 15:26 (id: 165142)

**How did Nadab walk in the sight of Yahweh?**

Nadab did evil in the sight of Yahweh and walked in the ways of his father.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:26

## 1 Kings 15:27 (id: 165143)

**What did Baasha son of Ahijah do at Gibbethon?**

Baasha the son of Ahijah killed Nadab at Gibbethon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:27

## 1 Kings 15:29 (id: 165144)

**What did Baasha do as soon as he became king?**

As soon as Baasha became king, he killed all of the family of Jeroboam.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:29

## 1 Kings 15:31 (id: 165145)

**How long was there war between Asa and Baasha?**

There was war between Asa and Baasha all their days.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:31

## 1 Kings 15:33 (id: 165146)

**How long did Baasha reign in Tirza?**

Baasha reigned in Tirza for twenty\-four years.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:33

## 1 Kings 15:34 (id: 165147)

**How did Baasha live?**

Baasha did evil in the sight of Yahweh and lived in the way of Jeroboam.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 15:34

## 1 Kings 16:2 (id: 165148)

**Out of what did Yahweh exalt Baasha?**

Yahweh exalted him out of the dust.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 16:2

## 1 Kings 16:4 (id: 165149)

**What would eat anyone belonging to Baasha who died in the city?**

The dogs would eat anyone belonging to Baasha who died in the city.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 16:4

## 1 Kings 16:7 (id: 165150)

**Why did the word of Yahweh come against Baasha and his family?**

The word of Yahweh came against Baasha and his family, both because of all the evil he did in the sight of Yahweh, and also because he had killed all of Jeroboam’s family.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 16:7

## 1 Kings 16:9–10 (id: 165151)

**What was Elah doing when Zimri killed him?**

Elah was drinking himself drunk in the house of Arza when Zimri killed him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 16:9–1KI 16:10

## 1 Kings 16:11 (id: 165152)

**When did Zimri kill all the family of Baasha?**

When Zimri began to reign, as soon as he had sat on his throne, he killed all the family of Baasha.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 16:11

## 1 Kings 16:15 (id: 165153)

**To whom did Gibbethon belong?**

Gibbethon belonged to the Philistines.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 16:15

## 1 Kings 16:18 (id: 165154)

**Where did Zimri kill himself?**

Zimri killed himself in the fortress attached to the king’s palace.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 16:18

## 1 Kings 16:21 (id: 165155)

**By what two leaders were the people of Israel divided into two parts?**

The people of Israel divided into two parts by Tibni the son of Ginath and by Omri.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 16:21

## 1 Kings 16:24 (id: 165156)

**Why did Omri call the name of the city Samaria?**

Omri called the name of the city Samaria, after the name of Shemer, the past owner of the hill.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 16:24

## 1 Kings 16:28 (id: 165157)

**Who became king in Omri’s place?**

Ahab his son became king in his place.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 16:28

## 1 Kings 16:32 (id: 165158)

**Who had built the house of Baal in Samaria?**

Ahab had built the house of Baal in Samaria.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 16:32

## 1 Kings 16:34 (id: 165159)

**What caused the loss of Hiel’s son Abiram?**

Hiel rebuilt Jericho, causing the loss of Abiram.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 16:34

## 1 Kings 17:1 (id: 165160)

**What ominous message did Elijah give to Ahab?**

Elijah told Ahab that as Yahweh lives, there would not be dew or rain unless he said so.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 17:1

## 1 Kings 17:4 (id: 165161)

**Who did Yahweh command to feed Elijah while Elijah was at the brook Cherith?**

Yahweh commanded the ravens to feed Elijah at the brook Cherith.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 17:4

## 1 Kings 17:7 (id: 165162)

**What happened when there was no rain in the land?**

The brook dried up when there was no rain in the land.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 17:7

## 1 Kings 17:8–10 (id: 165163)

**Where did Elijah go after the brook dried up?**

Yahweh sent Elijah to a widow in Zarephath.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 17:8–1KI 17:10

## 1 Kings 17:12 (id: 165164)

**Why was the widow gathering two sticks?**

The widow was gathering two sticks so she could go in and cook for herself and her son, that they could eat, and die.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 17:12

## 1 Kings 17:14 (id: 165165)

**For how long would the widow’s jar of meal and jug of oil be full?**

They would be full until the day that Yahweh sent rain on the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 17:14

## 1 Kings 17:17 (id: 165166)

**How sick was the woman’s son?**

The son’s sickness was so severe that there was no more breath left in him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 17:17

## 1 Kings 17:21 (id: 165167)

**What did Elijah do to save the child?**

Elijah stretched himself on the child three times; he cried out to Yahweh and said, “Yahweh my God, I beg you, please let this child’s life return to him.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 17:21

## 1 Kings 17:22–23 (id: 165168)

**How did the woman know that Elijah was a man of God?**

The woman knew that Elijah was a man of God when her son revived, and Elijah took the child and brought him out of his room down into the house.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 17:22–1KI 17:23

## 1 Kings 18:1–2 (id: 165169)

**What message did Yahweh ask Elijah to give to Ahab during the severe famine?**

Yahweh asked Elijah to tell Ahab he would send rain on the land.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:1–1KI 18:2

## 1 Kings 18:3–4 (id: 165170)

**How did Obadiah honor Yahweh when Jezebel was killing the prophets of Yahweh?**

Obadiah honored Yahweh by hiding one hundred prophets by fifties in a cave and feeding them with bread and water.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:3–1KI 18:4

## 1 Kings 18:5–6 (id: 165171)

**Why did Ahab and Obadiah go through the land to all the water springs and brooks?**

Ahab and Obadiah were searching for water and grass so they would not lose the horses and mules.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:5–1KI 18:6

## 1 Kings 18:7–8 (id: 165172)

**What dangerous message did Elijah ask Obadiah to tell Ahab?**

Elijah asked Obadiah to tell Ahab that “Elijah is here.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:7–1KI 18:8

## 1 Kings 18:9–11 (id: 165173)

**Why was Obadiah reluctant to tell Ahab that “Elijah is here.”?**

Obadiah was reluctant to tell Ahab, “Elijah is here.” because all the nearby nations had taken an oath that Elijah was not there.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:9–1KI 18:11

## 1 Kings 18:12 (id: 165174)

**What did Obadiah think would happen as soon as he left Elijah?**

Obadiah thought the Spirit of Yahweh would carry Elijah some place Obadiah did not know.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:12

## 1 Kings 18:14–15 (id: 165175)

**What did Elijah tell Obadiah to calm his fears?**

Elijah told Obadiah that as Yahweh lives, he would surely show himself to Ahab that day.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:14–1KI 18:15

## 1 Kings 18:16–17 (id: 165176)

**What did Ahab call Elijah when he met him?**

Ahab called Elijah a “troublemaker” when he met him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:16–1KI 18:17

## 1 Kings 18:18 (id: 165177)

**How did Elijah respond to Ahab calling him a “troublemaker”?**

Elijah told Ahab that he and his father’s family were the troublemakers because they abandoned the commandments of Yahweh to follow the Baal idols.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:18

## 1 Kings 18:19 (id: 165178)

**Who did Elijah say to gather on Mount Carmel?**

Elijah said to gather all the people of Israel, along with the 450 prophets of Baal and the four hundred prophets of Asherah who eat at Jezebel’s table.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:19

## 1 Kings 18:21 (id: 165179)

**Who did Elijah tell the people they should follow?**

Elijah told the people to follow Yahweh if he was God or Baal if he was God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:21

## 1 Kings 18:22–24 (id: 165180)

**What proposal did Elijah bring before the people?**

Elijah proposed that the prophets of Baal and himself each call upon their god to consume the sacrifice of a bull by fire to prove which one was god.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:22–1KI 18:24

## 1 Kings 18:26 (id: 165181)

**How long did the prophets of Baal call on Baal?**

The prophets of Baal called on Baal from morning until noon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:26

## 1 Kings 18:28 (id: 165182)

**After Elijah mocked the prophets of Baal at noon what did the prophets of Baal do?**

The prophets of Baal cried more loudly and cut themselves with swords and spears.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:28

## 1 Kings 18:29 (id: 165183)

**How long did the prophets of Baal continue their raving?**

The prophets of Baal were raving until the time of the evening sacrifice.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:29

## 1 Kings 18:30–32 (id: 165184)

**What did Elijah do to the ruined altar of Yahweh?**

Elijah repaired the altar of Yahweh with twelve stones,

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:30–1KI 18:32

## 1 Kings 18:32 (id: 165185)

**What did Elijah make around the altar of Yahweh?**

Elijah dug a trench around the altar of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:32

## 1 Kings 18:33–34 (id: 165186)

**What did Elijah have the people do to the wood and the bull for the burnt offering?**

Three times Elijah had the people fill four jars with water and pour them on the burnt offering and the wood.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:33–1KI 18:34

## 1 Kings 18:38–39 (id: 165187)

**How did the people of Israel respond when the fire of Yahweh fell and consumed the sacrifice and everything around it?**

The people lay face down on the ground and said, “Yahweh, he is God!, Yahweh, he is God!”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:38–1KI 18:39

## 1 Kings 18:40 (id: 165188)

**What did Elijah do with the prophets of Baal?**

Elijah brought the prophets of Baal down to the brook of Kishon and killed them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:40

## 1 Kings 18:43–44 (id: 165189)

**What did the servant of Elijah see after he looked toward the sea seven times?**

After the seventh time, the servant saw a cloud as small as a man’s hand.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:43–1KI 18:44

## 1 Kings 18:44 (id: 165190)

**What did Elijah tell his servant to say to Ahab?**

Elijah told his servant to tell Ahab to make ready his chariot and go down before the rain stopped him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:44

## 1 Kings 18:46 (id: 165191)

**What did Elijah do as Ahab rode and went to Jezreel?**

Elijah tucked his robe in his belt and ran before Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 18:46

## 1 Kings 19:1–2 (id: 165192)

**What threat did Jezebel make to Elijah?**

Jezebel told Elijah that she would make him to be one of the dead prophets by the next day.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 19:1–1KI 19:2

## 1 Kings 19:3 (id: 165193)

**How did Elijah respond to the threat from Jezebel?**

Elijah fled for his life to Beersheba.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 19:3

## 1 Kings 19:4 (id: 165194)

**Why did Elijah request that he might die?**

Elijah requested that he might die because he felt he was no better than his dead ancestors.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 19:4

## 1 Kings 19:5 (id: 165195)

**What happened as Elijah was sleeping under a broom tree?**

An angel touched Elijah and said to him, “Get up and eat.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 19:5

## 1 Kings 19:6 (id: 165196)

**What did Elijah see and do after the angel touched him?**

Elijah saw bread that had been baked on coals and a jug of water. Elijah ate and drank and lay down again.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 19:6

## 1 Kings 19:8 (id: 165197)

**How long did it take Elijah to get to Horeb, the mountain of God?**

Elijah traveled forty days and forty nights to Horeb.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 19:8

## 1 Kings 19:9–10 (id: 165198)

**How did Elijah respond when Yahweh asked him what he was doing in a cave?**

Elijah told Yahweh that he had been very zealous for him, but the people of Israel had forsaken his covenant, destroyed his altars, and killed his prophets, and he was the only one left.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 19:9–1KI 19:10

## 1 Kings 19:15–16 (id: 165199)

**What did Yahweh tell Elijah to do?**

Yahweh told Elijah to return to the wilderness to anoint Hazael to be king over Aram, Jehu to be king over Israel, and Elisha to be a prophet in his place.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 19:15–1KI 19:16

## 1 Kings 19:18 (id: 165200)

**How did Yahweh respond to Elijah’s claim that he was the only prophet left in the land?**

Yahweh told Elijah there were seven thousand people in Israel who were faithful to him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 19:18

## 1 Kings 19:19–20 (id: 165201)

**What excuse did Elisha give to Elijah after he draped his cloak on him?**

Elisha asked Elijah to let him kiss his mother and father before he followed him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 19:19–1KI 19:20

## 1 Kings 20:1–2 (id: 165202)

**What was the message which Ahab received from Ben Hadad when the city of Samaria was under siege?**

Ben Hadad told Ahab that his silver and gold as well as his wives and children were now Ben Hadad’s possessions.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:1–1KI 20:2

## 1 Kings 20:4–6 (id: 165203)

**How did Ben Hadad respond to Ahab’s willingness to give him his silver, gold, wives, and children?**

Ben Hadad informed Ahab that he was sending his servants the next day, and they would seize with their hands whatever pleased their eyes.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:4–1KI 20:6

## 1 Kings 20:7–8 (id: 165204)

**What was the advice which the king of Israel received from all the elders of the land and the people?**

The elders of the land and the people told the king not to listen or consent to the demands of Ben Hadad because he was only seeking trouble.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:7–1KI 20:8

## 1 Kings 20:9 (id: 165205)

**What was the message Ahab sent back to Ben Hadad?**

Ahab told Ben Hadad that he was agreeable to his first demand, but he could not accept his second demand.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:9

## 1 Kings 20:10 (id: 165206)

**What was the response of Ben Hadad to the message of Ahab?**

Ben Hadad took an oath that he would reduce Samaria to ashes.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:10

## 1 Kings 20:11–12 (id: 165207)

**What did Ben Hadad say when the king of Israel told him that he should not boast as if the battle was over?**

Ben Hadad told his soldiers to line up in position to prepare for battle.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:11–1KI 20:12

## 1 Kings 20:13–15 (id: 165208)

**Who did Yahweh say would win the battle for Israel against the great army of the Arameans?**

Yahweh told Ahab that the young officers who served the governors of the districts would win the battle for Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:13–1KI 20:15

## 1 Kings 20:16–17 (id: 165209)

**When the young officers who served the governors of the districts went forward first what were Ben Hadad and the thirty\-two lesser kings who were supporting him doing?**

Ben Hadad and his thirty\-two lesser kings were drinking themselves drunk.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:16–1KI 20:17

## 1 Kings 20:20–21 (id: 165210)

**What happened to Ben Hadad and the Arameans?**

Ben Hadad escaped on a horse with some horsemen and many or the Arameans were killed in a great slaughter.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:20–1KI 20:21

## 1 Kings 20:22 (id: 165211)

**What message did the prophet bring to the king of Israel?**

The prophet told the king of Israel that the king of Aram would return against them again, so Israel should strengthen itself and plan what they would do.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:22

## 1 Kings 20:23 (id: 165212)

**What did the servants of the king of Aram give as the reason for Israel being stronger in battle than the Arameans?**

The servants of the king of Aram told him Israel was stronger than the Arameans, since their god is a god of the hills.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:23

## 1 Kings 20:26 (id: 165213)

**What did Ben Hadad do after the beginning of the new year?**

Ben Hadad mustered the Arameans and went up to Aphek to fight against Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:26

## 1 Kings 20:28 (id: 165214)

**What did a man of God say to the king of Israel concerning the Arameans?**

The man of God said that because the Arameans said God was a god of the hills and not a god of the valleys, God was going to place the Aramean army into the hands of the king of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:28

## 1 Kings 20:29–30 (id: 165215)

**What was the outcome of the battle between the armies?**

Israel killed one hundred thousand Aramean footmen in one day. The rest fled to Aphek, into the city where a wall fell on twenty\-seven thousand men who were left and Ben Hadad fled into the city into an inner room.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:29–1KI 20:30

## 1 Kings 20:31–32 (id: 165216)

**What did Ben Hadad’s servants do for Ben Hadad?**

Ben Hadad’s servants put sackcloth on their waists and ropes around their heads and went to the king of Israel and begged the king of Israel to let Ben Hadad live.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:31–1KI 20:32

## 1 Kings 20:33–34 (id: 165217)

**What proposal did Ben Hadad make to Ahab when he was summoned to meet with him in his chariot?**

Ben Hadad told Ahab that he would restore to him the cities which had been taken from Israel if Ahab would let him go.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:33–1KI 20:34

## 1 Kings 20:35–36 (id: 165218)

**Why was one of the prophets killed by a lion?**

One of the prophets was killed by a lion because he did not obey the voice of Yahweh by hitting his fellow prophet.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:35–1KI 20:36

## 1 Kings 20:37–38 (id: 165219)

**How did the prophet disguise himself from the king after he had been hit and wounded?**

The prophet disguised himself from the king with a bandage over his eyes.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:37–1KI 20:38

## 1 Kings 20:39–40 (id: 165220)

**Why did the prophet tell a story to the king of Israel?**

The prophet told the story to the king of Israel to deceive him, so the king would make a ruling which would result in the forfeit of the king’s own life.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:39–1KI 20:40

## 1 Kings 20:41–43 (id: 165221)

**What bold statement did the prophet make to the king of Israel?**

The prophet told the king that he would lose his own life since he had allowed the man whom Yahweh had sentenced to death to live.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 20:41–1KI 20:43

## 1 Kings 21:1–2 (id: 165222)

**What did Ahab the king of Samaria want from Naboth the Jezreelite?**

Ahab, king of Samaria, wanted the vineyard from Naboth, which was near his palace.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 21:1–1KI 21:2

## 1 Kings 21:2 (id: 165223)

**What did Ahab offer Naboth for his vineyard?**

Ahab offered to give Naboth a better vineyard or to pay him money.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 21:2

## 1 Kings 21:3 (id: 165224)

**Why did Naboth refuse to give his vineyard to Ahab?**

Naboth refused to give his vineyard to Ahab because it was the inheritance of his ancestors.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 21:3

## 1 Kings 21:4 (id: 165225)

**What did Ahab do when Naboth refused to give up his vineyard?**

Ahab became resentful and angry, went to bed, and refused to eat any food.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 21:4

## 1 Kings 21:7 (id: 165226)

**Who told Ahab to get up from bed, eat, and be happy?**

Ahab’s wife, Jezebel, told him to get out of bed, eat, and be happy.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 21:7

## 1 Kings 21:10 (id: 165227)

**What did Jezebel do to make sure Ahab would get Naboth’s vineyard?**

Jezebel had two dishonest men falsely accuse Naboth of blasphemy against God and the king at a public fast.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 21:10

## 1 Kings 21:10 (#2) (id: 165228)

**What would be the penalty for Naboth’s blasphemy?**

Naboth would be taken out and stoned to death.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 21:10

## 1 Kings 21:17 (id: 165229)

**Who did Yahweh send to the vineyard to meet Ahab?**

Yahweh sent Elijah the Tishbite to the vineyard.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 21:17

## 1 Kings 21:18 (id: 165230)

**What did Ahab do when Jezebel told him that Naboth was dead?**

When Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, he went to the vineyard to take possession of it.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 21:18

## 1 Kings 21:19 (id: 165231)

**What did Elijah tell Ahab would happen to him because of his sin?**

Elijah told Ahab that dogs would lick his blood where they had licked the blood of Naboth.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 21:19

## 1 Kings 21:22 (id: 165232)

**What message did Elijah deliver to Ahab from Yahweh?**

Elijah told Ahab that Yahweh said that he would be cut off from every male child and slave and free man in Israel because he had led Israel to sin.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 21:22

## 1 Kings 21:23 (id: 165233)

**What would happen to Jezebel?**

The dogs would eat Jezebel by the wall of Jezreel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 21:23

## 1 Kings 21:27 (id: 165234)

**What did Ahab do when he heard these words?**

Ahab tore his clothes, put on sackcloth on his body, and fasted.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 21:27

## 1 Kings 21:29 (id: 165235)

**What did Yahweh do when Ahab humbled himself before him?**

Yahweh said that he would not bring this disaster in Ahab’s day, but would do it in his son’s day.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 21:29

## 1 Kings 22:1 (id: 165236)

**How long was there no war between Aram and Israel?**

For three years there had been no war between Aram and Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:1

## 1 Kings 22:2 (id: 165237)

**Who was the king of Judah?**

The king of Judah was Jehoshaphat.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:2

## 1 Kings 22:4 (id: 165238)

**What did the king of Israel ask Jehoshaphat to do with him?**

The king of Israel asked Jehoshaphat to go to Ramoth Gilead and make war on the king of Aram.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:4

## 1 Kings 22:6 (id: 165239)

**Who did the king of Israel call together to seek the will of Yahweh in this matter?**

The king of Israel gathered the prophets, 400 men, and asked them about making war on Aram.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:6

## 1 Kings 22:9 (id: 165240)

**From what other prophet did the king of Israel seek advice?**

The king of Israel called upon Micaiah the son of Imiah.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:9

## 1 Kings 22:12 (id: 165241)

**As the kings Ahab and Jehoshaphat sat on their thrones before the prophets, what was the prophesy they heard?**

As the kings Ahab and Jehoshaphat sat on their thrones, all the prophets said to them that they should attack Ramoth Gilead and win.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:12

## 1 Kings 22:15 (id: 165242)

**Was Micaiah in agreement with all the other prophets?**

Yes, Micaiah was in agreement with all the other prophets.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:15

## 1 Kings 22:17 (id: 165243)

**What bad news did Micaiah tell the king of Israel?**

Micaiah told the king of Israel that they would have no shepherd and would be scattered.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:17

## 1 Kings 22:21–23 (id: 165244)

**How did Micaiah tell the king of Israel that he would be enticed to go to Ramoth Gilead?**

Micaiah told the king of Israel that he would be enticed to go to Ramoth Gilead by the lies his prophets would tell him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:21–1KI 22:23

## 1 Kings 22:26–27 (id: 165245)

**What did the king of Israel order to be done to Micaiah?**

The king of Israel ordered that Micaiah be seized and put in prison and be fed only a little bread and water until the king of Israel returned safely.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:26–1KI 22:27

## 1 Kings 22:30 (id: 165246)

**What did the king of Israel do to avoid capture in the battle at Ramoth Gilead?**

The king of Israel disguised himself to avoid capture at Ramoth Gilead.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:30

## 1 Kings 22:34 (id: 165247)

**How did Ahab receive a serious wound at the battle of Ramoth Gilead?**

A soldier of Aram shot his bow at random and it struck Ahab between the joints of his armor.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:34

## 1 Kings 22:37 (id: 165248)

**Where was Ahab buried?**

Ahab was buried in Samaria.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:37

## 1 Kings 22:40 (id: 165249)

**Who became king at the death of Ahab?**

His son Ahaziah became king of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:40

## 1 Kings 22:42 (id: 165250)

**How long did Jehoshaphat reign in Jerusalem?**

Jehoshaphat reigned in Jerusalem for twenty\-five years.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:42

## 1 Kings 22:43 (id: 165251)

**What was said about the reign of Jehoshaphat?**

It was said that Jehoshaphat did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:43

## 1 Kings 22:52 (id: 165252)

**What was said about the reign of Ahab?**

It was said that Ahab did what was evil in the eyes of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1KI 22:52

