# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## 1 Chronicles 1:10 (id: 164240)

**Who was the first conqueror on the earth?**

Nimrod, the son of Cush, was the first conqueror.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 1:10

## 1 Chronicles 1:19 (id: 164241)

**Why was one of Eber’s sons named Peleg?**

In his days, the earth was divided.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 1:19

## 1 Chronicles 1:43 (id: 164242)

**What land had kings before kings reigned over the Israelites?**

The land of Edom had kings before the Israelites had kings.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 1:43

## 1 Chronicles 2:3 (id: 164243)

**What happened to Er, Judah’s firstborn son?**

He was wicked in the sight of Yahweh, so Yahweh killed him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 2:3

## 1 Chronicles 2:7 (id: 164244)

**How did Achar bring trouble on Israel?**

He stole what was reserved for God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 2:7

## 1 Chronicles 2:13–14 (id: 164245)

**Who was the seventh son of Jesse?**

David was the seventh son of Jesse.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 2:13–1CH 2:14

## 1 Chronicles 3:4 (id: 164246)

**How many years did David rule as king in Jerusalem?**

He ruled for thirty\-three years as king in Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 3:4

## 1 Chronicles 3:16 (id: 164247)

**Who was the last king for the Israelites?**

Zedekiah was Israel’s last king.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 3:16

## 1 Chronicles 4:9–10 (id: 164248)

**What did Jabez pray to the God of Israel?**

He prayed that God would bless him, extend his territory, keep him from harm so that he might not have to endure pain.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 4:9–1CH 4:10

## 1 Chronicles 4:10 (id: 164249)

**Was Jabez’s prayer answered?**

Yes, God granted him his prayer.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 4:10

## 1 Chronicles 4:27 (id: 164250)

**Why did the clan of Shimei and his brothers not increase greatly in numbers and the people of Judah did?**

His brothers did not have many children.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 4:27

## 1 Chronicles 4:39–40 (id: 164251)

**Why did some of the sons of Shimei go to Gedor on the east side of the valley?**

They were seeking pasture for their flocks, and they found abundant and good pasture there.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 4:39–1CH 4:40

## 1 Chronicles 5:1 (id: 164252)

**Why was Reuben’s firstborn birthright given to his brother Joseph?**

His birthright was given to Joseph, son of Israel, because Reuben had defiled his father’s couch.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 5:1

## 1 Chronicles 5:2 (id: 164253)

**From what son of Israel would a leader come?**

A leader would come from Israel’s son, Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 5:2

## 1 Chronicles 5:6 (id: 164254)

**What happened to Beerah, the son of Baal?**

The king of Assyria took him into exile.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 5:6

## 1 Chronicles 5:18 (id: 164255)

**How many trained soldiers did the Reubinites, Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh have?**

They had forty\-four thousand soldiers trained for war, who carried shield and sword, and who drew the bow.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 5:18

## 1 Chronicles 5:20 (id: 164256)

**Why were the Hagrites defeated?**

They were defeated because the Israelites cried out to God and put their trust in him, and God responded to them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 5:20

## 1 Chronicles 5:22 (id: 164257)

**How long did the Israelites live in the land they took from the Hagrites?**

They lived there until their captivity.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 5:22

## 1 Chronicles 5:23–24 (id: 164258)

**Where did the half tribe of Manasseh live with their families?**

They lived in the land of Bashan.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 5:23–1CH 5:24

## 1 Chronicles 5:25–26 (id: 164259)

**Because the Reubenittes, Gadities, and the half tribe of Manasseh were unfaithful to God, what did he do to them?**

God stirred up the king of Assyria and these tribes were taken into exile by Assyria.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 5:25–1CH 5:26

## 1 Chronicles 6:15 (id: 164260)

**To whom did Yahweh exile Judah and Jerusalem?**

He exited Judah and Jerusalem to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 6:15

## 1 Chronicles 6:31 (id: 164261)

**What were the duties of the men whom David put in charge of music?**

They were to serve by singing before the tabernacle.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 6:31

## 1 Chronicles 6:32 (id: 164262)

**Who built the house of Yahweh in Jerusalem?**

Soloman built the house of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 6:32

## 1 Chronicles 6:48 (id: 164263)

**What tribe of Israel was assigned to do the work for the tabernacle?**

The Levites were assigned to do this work.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 6:48

## 1 Chronicles 6:49 (id: 164264)

**What atonement offerings were Aaron and his sons responsible for?**

They were responsible for the offerings on the altar for burnt offerings and on the incense altar.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 6:49

## 1 Chronicles 6:49 (#2) (id: 164265)

**What were these offerings for?**

These offerings were to make atonement for Israel’s sins.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 6:49

## 1 Chronicles 6:64–65 (id: 164266)

**Where did the Levites live because they were not given specific land like the other tribes?**

The Levites were assigned by lot cities with their pasturelands from the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 6:64–1CH 6:65

## 1 Chronicles 7:2 (id: 164267)

**What kind of men were the sons of Tola?**

They were strong, courageous men.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 7:2

## 1 Chronicles 7:5 (id: 164268)

**What was the number of fighting men from the tribe of Issachar?**

The tribe of Issachar had 87,000 fighting men.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 7:5

## 1 Chronicles 7:6–7 (id: 164269)

**For what were the sons of Bela known?**

The sons of Bela were known as soldiers and originators of clans.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 7:6–1CH 7:7

## 1 Chronicles 7:14 (id: 164270)

**Who bore Manasseh a male child named Asriel?**

Manasseh’s Aramite concubine bore him a male child named Asriel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 7:14

## 1 Chronicles 7:21–22 (id: 164271)

**Why did Ephraim need comfort from his brothers when he was in mourning for many days?**

Ephraim needed comfort from his brothers because his sons Ezer and Elead were killed by men of Gath when they went to steal their cattle.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 7:21–1CH 7:22

## 1 Chronicles 7:23 (id: 164272)

**Why did Ephraim name his son Beriah?**

Ephraim named his son Beriah because tragedy had come to his family.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 7:23

## 1 Chronicles 7:27 (id: 164273)

**Who was the son of Nun?**

Joshua was the son of Nun.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 7:27

## 1 Chronicles 7:28 (id: 164274)

**Where were the possessions and residences of Joshua and his family?**

Their possessions and residences were in Bethel and its surrounding villages.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 7:28

## 1 Chronicles 7:40 (id: 164275)

**What were the qualities of the descendants of Asher?**

The descendants of Asher were originators of clans, leaders of their families, distinguished men, fighting men, and chief among the leaders.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 7:40

## 1 Chronicles 8:6 (id: 164276)

**What were the descendants of Ehud compelled to do?**

The descendants of Ehud were compelled to move to Manahath.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 8:6

## 1 Chronicles 8:13 (id: 164277)

**Who did the sons of Elpaal drive out?**

His sons drove out the inhabitants of Gath.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 8:13

## 1 Chronicles 8:28 (id: 164278)

**Where did Jeroham’s sons live?**

They lived in Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 8:28

## 1 Chronicles 8:32 (id: 164279)

**Where did Mikloth and his family live?**

Mikloth and his family lived near their relatives in Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 8:32

## 1 Chronicles 8:33 (id: 164280)

**Who was the father of Saul?**

Kish was the father of Saul.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 8:33

## 1 Chronicles 8:39–40 (id: 164281)

**For what were the sons of Ulam, who were descendants of Benjamin, known?**

The sons of Ulam were fighting men and archers.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 8:39–1CH 8:40

## 1 Chronicles 9:1 (id: 164282)

**Where were the genealogies of all Israel recorded?**

The genealogies were recorded in the Book of the Kings of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 9:1

## 1 Chronicles 9:1 (#2) (id: 164283)

**Why was Judah carried away in exile to Babylon?**

Judah was carried away to Babylon because of their sin.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 9:1

## 1 Chronicles 9:2 (id: 164284)

**Who were the first people to resettle in their cities?**

The first to resettle in their cities were some Israelites, priests, Levites, and temple servants.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 9:2

## 1 Chronicles 9:11 (id: 164285)

**For what was Azariah known?**

Azariah was the priest who was in charge of the house of God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 9:11

## 1 Chronicles 9:13 (id: 164286)

**For what were the relatives of Adaiah and Maasai known?**

They were very capable men in the work in the house of God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 9:13

## 1 Chronicles 9:17–18 (id: 164287)

**What was the previous responsibility which the doorkeepers carried out?**

The doorkeepers previously stood guard at the king’s gate on the east side for the camp of Levi’s descendants.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 9:17–1CH 9:18

## 1 Chronicles 9:19 (id: 164288)

**What was the responsibility of the Korahites?**

The Korahites were guards over the temple work and over the thresholds of the tent where Yahweh lived.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 9:19

## 1 Chronicles 9:21 (id: 164289)

**What was the responsibility of Zechariah, son of Meshelemiah?**

Zechariah was the guard of the entrance to the Temple, the “tent of meeting”.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 9:21

## 1 Chronicles 9:22–24 (id: 164290)

**What did the gatekeepers and their children, whom David and Samuel placed into their positions of trust, do in Israel?**

The gatekeepers and their children guarded the gates of the house of Yahweh, the tabernacle.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 9:22–1CH 9:24

## 1 Chronicles 9:26–27 (id: 164291)

**How did the four leaders of the gatekeepers carry out their assigned task to guard the room and storerooms in the house of God?**

The four leaders of the gatekeepers would spend the night in their posts all around the house of God and then open it each morning.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 9:26–1CH 9:27

## 1 Chronicles 9:28–29 (id: 164292)

**What specific tasks were the Levites assigned to do?**

Some of the Levites were in charge of the temple’s equipment and some were assigned to take care of the sanctuary utensils, equipment, and supplies like the flour, the wine, the oil, the frankincense, and the spices.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 9:28–1CH 9:29

## 1 Chronicles 9:32 (id: 164293)

**What was the responsibility of the Kohathites?**

The Kohathites were in charge of preparing the bread of the presence every Sabbath.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 9:32

## 1 Chronicles 9:33 (id: 164294)

**Why did the singers and Levite family leaders live in rooms at the sanctuary when they were free from work?**

The singers and Levite family leaders lived at the sanctuary because they had to carry out their assigned tasks every day and night.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 9:33

## 1 Chronicles 10:1–2 (id: 164295)

**What happened to the sons of Saul on Mount Gilboa?**

The Philistines pursued the sons of Saul and killed them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 10:1–1CH 10:2

## 1 Chronicles 10:4 (id: 164296)

**Why did Saul want his armor bearer to thrust him through with his sword?**

Saul wanted his armor bearer to thrust him through so that the uncircumcised could not abuse him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 10:4

## 1 Chronicles 10:4 (#2) (id: 164297)

**What did Saul do when his armor bearer would not thrust him through?**

Saul took his own sword and fell on it.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 10:4

## 1 Chronicles 10:5 (id: 164298)

**How did Saul’s armor bearer react to Saul’s death?**

When Saul’s armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell on his sword and died.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 10:5

## 1 Chronicles 10:7 (id: 164299)

**What did the men of Israel do when they saw the the army had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead?**

They fled abandoned their cities and allowed the Philistines to come and live in them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 10:7

## 1 Chronicles 10:9–10 (id: 164300)

**What did the Philistines do to the body of Saul?**

The Philistines stripped his body and put his armor in the temple of their gods and fastened his head to the temple of Dagon.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 10:9–1CH 10:10

## 1 Chronicles 10:11–12 (id: 164301)

**What did the fighting men of Jabesh Gilead do with the bodies of Saul and his sons?**

They took away the body of Saul and his sons and brought them to Jabesh and buried their bones under the oak tree.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 10:11–1CH 10:12

## 1 Chronicles 10:13–14 (id: 164302)

**Why did Saul die?**

Saul died because he was unfaithful and did not seek guidance from Yahweh, but asked for advice from someone who talked with the dead.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 10:13–1CH 10:14

## 1 Chronicles 10:14 (id: 164303)

**To whom did Yahweh hand over the kingdom of Israel?**

Yahweh handed over the kingdom of Israel to David, the son of Jesse.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 10:14

## 1 Chronicles 11:1–3 (id: 164304)

**Why was all of Israel willing to anoint David as king over Israel?**

David was their flesh and bone, led the Israelite army in the past, and Yahweh through Samuel had declared that David would rule over Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 11:1–1CH 11:3

## 1 Chronicles 11:4–6 (id: 164305)

**How did Joab become a commander in the army of Israel?**

David had said that whoever attacked the Jebusites first would become a commander, and Joab was the first to attack them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 11:4–1CH 11:6

## 1 Chronicles 11:7–9 (id: 164306)

**Why did David become greater and greater after he began to live in the city of David?**

David became greater and greater because Yahweh of hosts was with him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 11:7–1CH 11:9

## 1 Chronicles 11:11 (id: 164307)

**For what was Jashobeam known?**

Jashobeam killed three hundred men with his spear on one occasion.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 11:11

## 1 Chronicles 11:12–14 (id: 164308)

**What was the reputation of Eleazar the Ahohite?**

After the Israelite army had fled, Eleazar the Ahohite stood his ground in the middle of the barley field and cut down the Philistines.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 11:12–1CH 11:14

## 1 Chronicles 11:17 (id: 164309)

**What was the request which David made?**

David wanted some water to drink from the well near the gate at Bethlehem.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 11:17

## 1 Chronicles 11:18 (id: 164310)

**What did the three mighty men of David do to make his request a reality?**

The three mighty men of David broke through the army of the Philistines, drew water out of the Bethlehem well, and brought it back to David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 11:18

## 1 Chronicles 11:19 (id: 164311)

**Why did David not drink the water from the well in Bethlehem when his mighty men had risked their lives to get it?**

David refused to drink the water because he could not think of drinking it when the men had risked their lives to get it.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 11:19

## 1 Chronicles 11:20–21 (id: 164312)

**What was the reputation of Abishai, brother of Joab?**

Abishai was captain over the three mighty men and once killed three hundred with his spear.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 11:20–1CH 11:21

## 1 Chronicles 11:22–23 (id: 164313)

**What was the reputation of Benaiah, son of Jehoiada?**

Benaiah was a strong man who killed a lion in a pit while it was snowing, and killed a large Egyptian by wresting his own spear away from him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 11:22–1CH 11:23

## 1 Chronicles 11:24–25 (id: 164314)

**What responsibility did David give to Benaiah?**

Benaiah was highly regarded by David, so he put him in charge of his bodyguard.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 11:24–1CH 11:25

## 1 Chronicles 11:26 (id: 164315)

**Which of the mighty men was the brother of Joab?**

Asahel was the mighty man who was the brother of Joab.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 11:26

## 1 Chronicles 12:1–2 (id: 164316)

**What was the special talent of the mighty men who came to David while he was still banished from the presence of Saul?**

The mighty men were Benjaminites who could use both the right hand and the left in slinging stones and shooting arrows from their bows.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 12:1–1CH 12:2

## 1 Chronicles 12:8 (id: 164317)

**What were the special traits of the Gadites who joined David at the stronghold in the wilderness.**

The Gadites were fighting men trained for battle who could handle the shield and spear, whose faces were as fierce as the faces of lions, and who could run as swift as gazelles on the mountains.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 12:8

## 1 Chronicles 12:14–15 (id: 164318)

**What did the sons of Gad accomplish in the land given to Israel?**

The sons of Gad not only crossed the Jordan after it had overflowed its banks, but chased away all those living in the valleys.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 12:14–1CH 12:15

## 1 Chronicles 12:16–17 (id: 164319)

**What warning did David give to the men of Benjamin and Judah when they came to his stronghold?**

David told them they could join him if they had come in peace, but if they had come to betray him to his adversaries, then he would tell God to rebuke them since he had done no wrong.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 12:16–1CH 12:17

## 1 Chronicles 12:18 (id: 164320)

**What was Amasai’s response to David’s warning?**

Amasai told David that we are all on his side and only want peace for whoever helps David because his God is helping him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 12:18

## 1 Chronicles 12:19 (id: 164321)

**Why did the Philistines send David away when David had come over to the Philistines to fight in battle against Saul?**

The Philistines were afraid that he would desert back to fighting with Saul and they would be at risk for losing their lives.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 12:19

## 1 Chronicles 12:21 (id: 164322)

**How did the men of Manasseh, who later became commanders in David’s army, help him?**

The men of Manasseh were fighting men who helped David by fighting against the roving bands.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 12:21

## 1 Chronicles 12:23 (id: 164323)

**Why did all the armed soldiers for war come to David at Hebron?**

They came to David at Hebron to help him take over the kingdom of Saul which was a fulfillment of Yahweh’s word.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 12:23

## 1 Chronicles 12:28 (id: 164324)

**For what was Zadok known?**

Zadok was a young, strong, and courageous man.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 12:28

## 1 Chronicles 12:32 (id: 164325)

**For what were the two hundred leaders from Issachar known?**

They had understanding of the times and knew what Israel ought to do.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 12:32

## 1 Chronicles 12:38 (id: 164326)

**Why did all the soldiers of Israel come to Hebron?**

They came to Hebron with the firm intentions to make David the king over all Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 12:38

## 1 Chronicles 12:39 (id: 164327)

**Where did the soldiers of Israel get enough food and drink to be able to eat and drink for three days to celebrate David becoming the king of Israel?**

The relatives of the soldiers of Israel sent all those provisions with them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 12:39

## 1 Chronicles 13:1–2 (id: 164328)

**With whom did David consult before speaking to all the assembly of Israel?**

He consulted with the commanders and with every leader in Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 13:1–1CH 13:2

## 1 Chronicles 13:2–4 (id: 164329)

**Why did the assembly agree to listen to David, send out messengers everywhere in Israel and join with David to bring the ark of God back to Israel?**

The assembly agreed to do these things because they seemed right in the eyes of all the people.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 13:2–1CH 13:4

## 1 Chronicles 13:7–8 (id: 164330)

**What did David and all Israel do as they brought the ark out of Abinadab’s house?**

David and all Israel celebrated before God with all their might.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 13:7–1CH 13:8

## 1 Chronicles 13:9 (id: 164331)

**What did Yahweh do when Uzza stretched out his hand to grab the ark when the oxen stumbled?**

The anger of Yahweh burned against Uzzah and Yahweh killed him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 13:9

## 1 Chronicles 13:11 (id: 164332)

**Why was David angry with Yahweh?**

David was angry because Yahweh had attacked Uzza.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 13:11

## 1 Chronicles 13:12–13 (id: 164333)

**Where did David put the ark of God when he became afraid of God?**

David put the ark of God into the house of Obededom the Gittite.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 13:12–1CH 13:13

## 1 Chronicles 13:14 (id: 164334)

**What did Yahweh do for Obededom’s household?**

Yahweh blessed his house and all that he possessed.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 13:14

## 1 Chronicles 14:1–2 (id: 164335)

**What did David know for sure when Hiram, king of Tyre sent messengers, cedar trees, carpenters and masons to build a house for David?**

David knew for sure that Yahweh had established him as king over Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 14:1–1CH 14:2

## 1 Chronicles 14:3 (id: 164336)

**What was the result when David took more wives in Jerusalem?**

David became the father of more sons and daughters.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 14:3

## 1 Chronicles 14:8 (id: 164337)

**What did David do when he heard that the Philistines were out looking for him?**

He went out against the Philistines.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 14:8

## 1 Chronicles 14:10 (id: 164338)

**What did Yahweh answer David when David asked if he should attack the Philistines?**

Yahweh told David to attack them for he would certainly give them to David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 14:10

## 1 Chronicles 14:12 (id: 164339)

**What did David order to be done to the gods that the Philistines had abandoned?**

David gave an order that the gods of the Philistines should be burned.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 14:12

## 1 Chronicles 14:13–14 (id: 164340)

**From where did God tell David to attack the Philistines when they raided the valley again?**

God told David to circle around behind them and come on them through the woods.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 14:13–1CH 14:14

## 1 Chronicles 14:15 (id: 164341)

**What was David to hear before he attacked the Philistines with force?**

David was to hear the sound of marching in the wind blowing through the treetops.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 14:15

## 1 Chronicles 14:17 (id: 164342)

**What did Yahweh cause all nations to do when David’s fame went out to all lands?**

Yahweh caused all nations to fear David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 14:17

## 1 Chronicles 15:2 (id: 164343)

**Who did David say were the only people that Yahweh had chosen to carry the ark?**

Levites were the only people who Yahweh had chosen to carry the ark.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 15:2

## 1 Chronicles 15:3 (id: 164344)

**For what purpose did David assemble all of Israel at Jerusalem?**

David assembled them to bring up the ark of Yahweh to the place he had prepared for it.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 15:3

## 1 Chronicles 15:4 (id: 164345)

**Who did David gather together to bring up the ark?**

David gathered together Aaron’s descendants and the Levites.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 15:4

## 1 Chronicles 15:12 (id: 164346)

**What were the leaders of the Levite familes and their brothers to do so that they could bring up the ark of Yahweh to the place David prepared for it?**

They were to place themselves apart so they could bring up the ark of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 15:12

## 1 Chronicles 15:14 (id: 164347)

**Why did the priests and Levites sanctify themselves?**

They sanctified themselves so that they could bring up the ark of Yahweh, the God of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 15:14

## 1 Chronicles 15:15 (id: 164348)

**From whom did Moses get the rules for carrying the ark on the Levites’ shoulders with the poles?**

The rules for carrying the ark were given by the word of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 15:15

## 1 Chronicles 15:16 (id: 164349)

**To whom did David give the responsibility of assigning the musicians?**

David gave the responsibility of assigning the musicians to the leaders of the Levites.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 15:16

## 1 Chronicles 15:26 (id: 164350)

**Who helped the Levites who carried the ark of the covenant of Yahweh?**

God helped the Levites who carried the ark.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 15:26

## 1 Chronicles 15:27 (id: 164351)

**With what was David clothed and what was he wearing in addition?**

David was clothed with a robe of fine linen and he was wearing a linen ephod.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 15:27

## 1 Chronicles 15:28 (id: 164352)

**Who brought up the ark with joyful shouting, with the sound of horns, with cymbals and with stringed instruments and harps?**

All of Israel brought up the ark.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 15:28

## 1 Chronicles 15:29 (id: 164353)

**What did Michal see David doing that caused her to despise him in her heart?**

Michal saw King David dancing and celebrating.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 15:29

## 1 Chronicles 16:1 (id: 164354)

**What did the Israelites offer before God after the ark was put in the middle of the the tent that David had set up for it?**

They offered burnt offerings and fellowship offerings.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:1

## 1 Chronicles 16:2–3 (id: 164355)

**What did David distribute to every Israelite when he had finished blessing the people in the name of Yahweh?**

David distributed to each of them a loaf of bread, a piece of meat, and a cake of raisins.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:2–1CH 16:3

## 1 Chronicles 16:4 (id: 164356)

**What were the Levites appointed to do as they served before the ark?**

The Levites were to celebrate, thank and praise Yahweh, the God of Israel as they served before the ark of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:4

## 1 Chronicles 16:7 (id: 164357)

**What were Assaph and his brothers appointed to do?**

They were appointed to sing a song of thanksgiving to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:7

## 1 Chronicles 16:9 (id: 164358)

**What were people to speak about in the song that Assaph and his brothers sang?**

They were to speak of all of Yahweh’s marvelous deeds.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:9

## 1 Chronicles 16:10–11 (id: 164359)

**Who were the people to boast about and seek?**

The people were to boast about and seek Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:10–1CH 16:11

## 1 Chronicles 16:12–14 (id: 164360)

**What are the descendants of Israel, Yahweh’s chosen ones, supposed to recall about Yahweh their God?**

They are to recall the marvelous things he has done, his miracles and the decrees from his mouth.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:12–1CH 16:14

## 1 Chronicles 16:15–16 (id: 164361)

**What did Yahweh make with Abraham that the Israelites are to keep in mind forever?**

He made a covenant with Abraham, and the Israelites are to keep Yahweh’s covenant in mind forever.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:15–1CH 16:16

## 1 Chronicles 16:18 (id: 164362)

**What did Yahweh promise to give to his people as a share of their inheritance?**

Yahweh promised to give them the land of Canaan.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:18

## 1 Chronicles 16:19–21 (id: 164363)

**How did Yahweh protect Israel when they were few in number and as they were going from one kingdom to another?**

He did not allow anyone to oppress them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:19–1CH 16:21

## 1 Chronicles 16:23–24 (id: 164364)

**What are the people to declare among the nations as they sing to Yahweh and announce his salvation day after day?**

They are to declare Yahweh’s glory and his marvelous deeds among all the nations.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:23–1CH 16:24

## 1 Chronicles 16:25–26 (id: 164365)

**Who is it that has made the heavens and is to be praised greatly and feared above all other gods?**

It is Yahweh who made the heavens and is to be praised greatly and feared above all other gods.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:25–1CH 16:26

## 1 Chronicles 16:28 (id: 164366)

**What is to be ascribed to Yahweh?**

Glory and strength are to be ascribed to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:28

## 1 Chronicles 16:31 (id: 164367)

**What will the nations say about Yahweh?**

The nations will say, “Yahweh reigns.”

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:31

## 1 Chronicles 16:33 (id: 164368)

**What are the trees in the forest going to do before Yahweh?**

The trees in the forest will shout for joy before him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:33

## 1 Chronicles 16:35 (id: 164369)

**Why should Yahweh gather his people together and rescue them from the other nations?**

He should gather them together and rescue them so that they may give thanks to his holy name and glory in his praises.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:35

## 1 Chronicles 16:36 (id: 164370)

**For how long is Yahweh, the God of Israel to be praised?**

He is to be praised from everlasting to everlasting.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:36

## 1 Chronicles 16:40 (id: 164371)

**Who gave the commands and written law to Israel for how the burnt offerings were to be made?**

Yahweh gave the commands and written law to Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:40

## 1 Chronicles 16:43 (id: 164372)

**To what place did the people and David return after the celebration of the placing of the ark?**

The people returned to their homes, and David returned to bless his own household.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 16:43

## 1 Chronicles 17:1 (id: 164373)

**What bothered King David about where the ark of the covenant of Yahweh was staying?**

It bothered him that the ark of the covenant of Yahweh was staying under only a tent while David was living in a house of cedar.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 17:1

## 1 Chronicles 17:3 (id: 164374)

**What did Yahweh tell Nathan to say David about building a house in for Yahweh?**

God said David was not to build a house in which Yahweh could live.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 17:3

## 1 Chronicles 17:7 (id: 164375)

**Why did Yahweh take David from the pasture and from following the sheep?**

He took David from the pasture and from following the sheep so that he would be ruler over Yahweh’s people Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 17:7

## 1 Chronicles 17:8 (id: 164376)

**What did Yahweh say that he would do for David’s name?**

He said that he would make David a name like the name of the great ones who are on the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 17:8

## 1 Chronicles 17:9 (id: 164377)

**Who would no longer oppress the people of Israel after Yahweh gave them a place where they could live and be troubled no more?**

Wicked people would no longer oppress Israel as they did before.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 17:9

## 1 Chronicles 17:11–12 (id: 164378)

**What does Yahweh say that David’s descendant will do after David’s days are fulfilled?**

David’s descendant will build a house for Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 17:11–1CH 17:12

## 1 Chronicles 17:14 (id: 164379)

**For how long did Yahweh say that the throne of David’s descendant would be established?**

The throne of David’s descendant would be established forever.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 17:14

## 1 Chronicles 17:17–18 (id: 164380)

**What did David say that Yahweh had done for him because of what Yahweh had shown him about future generations?**

He said Yahweh had honored him and given him special recognition.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 17:17–1CH 17:18

## 1 Chronicles 17:21 (id: 164381)

**What does David say is the reason that Yahweh rescued his people from Egypt and made them a people for himself?**

Yahweh rescued them from Egypt to make a name for himself by his great and awesome deeds.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 17:21

## 1 Chronicles 17:23 (id: 164382)

**What does David ask Yahweh to do about the promise that he made to David concerning the establishment of David’s family forever?**

David asks Yahweh to do as Yahweh had spoken.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 17:23

## 1 Chronicles 17:26–27 (id: 164383)

**What did Yahweh promise to do for his servant David’s house?**

Yahweh promised to bless his servant David’s house and it would be blessed forever.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 17:26–1CH 17:27

## 1 Chronicles 18:1–2 (id: 164384)

**What two groups of people did David attack and defeat?**

He attacked and defeated the Philistines and the Moabites.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 18:1–1CH 18:2

## 1 Chronicles 18:3–4 (id: 164385)

**What did David do with the hundred chariot horses that were left over after he hamstrung the horses that he captured from Hadadezer?**

He reserved enough chariot horses for a hundred chariots.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 18:3–1CH 18:4

## 1 Chronicles 18:5–6 (id: 164386)

**What did David put in Aram of Damascus after he had killed twenty\-two thousand Arameans?**

David put garrisons in Aram of Damascus.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 18:5–1CH 18:6

## 1 Chronicles 18:8 (id: 164387)

**What did David take from Hadadezer that Solomon used later to make items for the temple?**

David took very much bronze from Hadadezer.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 18:8

## 1 Chronicles 18:9–11 (id: 164388)

**What did King David do with the silver, gold and bronze items that Hadoram brought to David from Toi, king of Hamath and the silver and gold that he carried away from all the nations?**

David dedicated these objects to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 18:9–1CH 18:11

## 1 Chronicles 18:12–13 (id: 164389)

**What happened to all the Edomites after the battle in which Abishai killed 18,000 Edomites?**

All the Edomites became David’s servants.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 18:12–1CH 18:13

## 1 Chronicles 18:17 (id: 164390)

**Who were the leading advisors to King David as he reigned over all Israel and administered justice and righteousness to all his people?**

David’s sons were the king’s leading advisors.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 18:17

## 1 Chronicles 19:1–2 (id: 164391)

**Why did David want to show kindness to Hanun the son of Nahash, king of the people of Ammon after his father died?**

Hanun’s father had been kind to David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 19:1–1CH 19:2

## 1 Chronicles 19:3 (id: 164392)

**Did the leaders of Ammon believe that David was trying to comfort Hanun as David’s servants entered their land?**

The leaders thought David’s servants were coming to explore and examine their land so David could overthrow their country.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 19:3

## 1 Chronicles 19:4–5 (id: 164393)

**What did the Hanun do to David’s servants that made the servants deeply ashamed?**

He shaved them and were cut off their garments to the waist.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 19:4–1CH 19:5

## 1 Chronicles 19:6–7 (id: 164394)

**Why did the Ammorites hire chariots and horsemen?**

They hired the chariots and horsemen to prepare for war because they had become a stench to David.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 19:6–1CH 19:7

## 1 Chronicles 19:8 (id: 164395)

**Who did David send when he heard about the Ammonites preparing for war?**

David sent Joab and his entire army.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 19:8

## 1 Chronicles 19:10–11 (id: 164396)

**How did Joab arrange for fighting the Ammonites and the Arameans when he saw their battle lines.**

Job chose some of Israel’s best to fight the Arameans and gave command to his brother to fight the Ammonites with the rest of the army.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 19:10–1CH 19:11

## 1 Chronicles 19:12–13 (id: 164397)

**What did Joab tell his brother?**

Joab told his brother that they should help each other if needed, and that they should be strong because Yahweh will do what is good for his people.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 19:12–1CH 19:13

## 1 Chronicles 19:14–15 (id: 164398)

**Why did the army of Ammon flee back to their city?**

The army of Ammon saw that the Arameans fled before the army of Israel, and so they ran back to their city.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 19:14–1CH 19:15

## 1 Chronicles 19:16–17 (id: 164399)

**Why did David gather all Israel together and arrange for battle against the Arameans?**

David heard that the Arameans sent for reinforcements.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 19:16–1CH 19:17

## 1 Chronicles 19:18–19 (id: 164400)

**Why were the people of Aram no longer willing to help the Ammonites?**

They no longer helped the Ammonites when David killed 47 thousand of their men and the commander of the army.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 19:18–1CH 19:19

## 1 Chronicles 20:1 (id: 164401)

**What did Joab do when David remained in Jerusalem?**

Joab led the army into battle, devastated the land of the Ammonites, and attacked and defeated Rabbah.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 20:1

## 1 Chronicles 20:2–3 (id: 164402)

**After taking the crown off of the king’s head and placing it on his own, what did David force the people to do?**

He forced them to do hard labor.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 20:2–1CH 20:3

## 1 Chronicles 20:6–8 (id: 164403)

**When the descendants of Rephaim mocked the army of Israel, what happened?**

They were killed by David and his soldiers.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 20:6–1CH 20:8

## 1 Chronicles 21:1–2 (id: 164404)

**Why did David decide to count the people of Israel?**

If an adversary came against Israel, and David wanted to know how many were in his army.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 21:1–1CH 21:2

## 1 Chronicles 21:3 (id: 164405)

**How did Joab respond to David’s request to count the people?**

He suggested that it would bring guilt on Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 21:3

## 1 Chronicles 21:4–5 (id: 164406)

**What did Joab do when the king commanded him to go and count the people?**

He went and reported back the total number of men that were able to fight.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 21:4–1CH 21:5

## 1 Chronicles 21:7 (id: 164407)

**How did God respond to David counting the soldiers of Israel?**

God was offended and attacked Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 21:7

## 1 Chronicles 21:8 (id: 164408)

**How did David feel when God attacked Israel?**

He felt guilty for sending Joab to count the soldiers.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 21:8

## 1 Chronicles 21:9–10 (id: 164409)

**In response to David’s confession, what did Yahweh offer him?**

Yahweh offered him three choices.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 21:9–1CH 21:10

## 1 Chronicles 21:11–12 (id: 164410)

**What were the three choices Yahweh gave to David?**

David could choose three years of famine, three months being sought after by his enemies, or three days of Yahweh’s sword.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 21:11–1CH 21:12

## 1 Chronicles 21:13 (id: 164411)

**Which of the three punishments did David choose?**

He chose the three days of Yahweh’s sword.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 21:13

## 1 Chronicles 21:14–15 (id: 164412)

**What were the results of David’s choice?**

Yahweh sent the plague and many people died. Yahweh sent an angel to destroy Jerusalem, but Yahweh changed his mind.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 21:14–1CH 21:15

## 1 Chronicles 21:16–17 (id: 164413)

**When David saw the angel with the sword, how did he react?**

He confessed and requested that God punish him and his family, but not punish God’s people.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 21:16–1CH 21:17

## 1 Chronicles 21:18–19 (id: 164414)

**What was David commanded to do at the threshing floor of Ornan?**

He was to build an altar for Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 21:18–1CH 21:19

## 1 Chronicles 21:20 (id: 164415)

**How did Ornan react to seeing the angel?**

He and his four sons hid themselves from the angel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 21:20

## 1 Chronicles 21:21–22 (id: 164416)

**When Ornan met David, what did David ask of him?**

He asked Ornan to sell him the threshing floor.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 21:21–1CH 21:22

## 1 Chronicles 21:23–24 (id: 164417)

**What did Ornan offer that David refused?**

He offered to give him the threshing floor, the oxen, and wheat.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 21:23–1CH 21:24

## 1 Chronicles 21:25–27 (id: 164418)

**After David bought the threshing floor and built an altar, how did Yahweh answer his prayer?**

Yahweh answered him with fire from heaven on the altar and told the angel to put his sword away.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 21:25–1CH 21:27

## 1 Chronicles 21:29–30 (id: 164419)

**Why did David not go to the shrine of Gibeon?**

David was afraid of Yahweh’s angel’s sword.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 21:29–1CH 21:30

## 1 Chronicles 22:1–2 (id: 164420)

**After David declared where the house of Yahweh was to be built, what did he order his servants to do?**

He ordered them to find the foreigners living in the land of Israel and give them jobs as stonecutters to build God’s house.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 22:1–1CH 22:2

## 1 Chronicles 22:3–5 (id: 164421)

**What preparations did David make for building the house of Yahweh before his death?**

He provided large amounts of iron, bronze, and cedar.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 22:3–1CH 22:5

## 1 Chronicles 22:6–8 (id: 164422)

**Why did David tell Solomon that he was commanding him build the house of Yahweh?**

Yahweh told David that he would not be the one to build the house because of all the blood that was shed.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 22:6–1CH 22:8

## 1 Chronicles 22:9–10 (id: 164423)

**How did Yahweh tell David he would do for his son?**

He would give him rest from all his enemies on every side, and would establish Solomon’s kingdom over Israel forever.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 22:9–1CH 22:10

## 1 Chronicles 22:13 (id: 164424)

**How did David tell Solomon to carefully observe?**

He told Solomon to carefully obey the statutes and the decrees that Yahweh gave to Moses concerning Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 22:13

## 1 Chronicles 22:14 (id: 164425)

**What did David tell Solomon to do with all of the materials that David had prepared for Yahweh’s house?**

He told Solomon to add more to it.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 22:14

## 1 Chronicles 22:19 (id: 164426)

**What did David tell Solomon to get up and to do?**

He told Solomon to get up and build the sanctuary of Yahweh God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 22:19

## 1 Chronicles 23:1–3 (id: 164427)

**What were some of the last things David did as king of Israel?**

David made Solomon king in his place, and he had counted the Levites that were at least thirty years old.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 23:1–1CH 23:3

## 1 Chronicles 23:4–6 (id: 164428)

**What jobs did David give to the Levites?**

He divided them into groups of overseers of the work of Yahweh’s house, officers and judges, gatekeepers, and others to praise Yahweh with instruments.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 23:4–1CH 23:6

## 1 Chronicles 23:13 (id: 164429)

**What were Aaron and his descendants chosen to do permanently?**

Aaron and his descendants were to consecrate the most holy items, offer incense to Yahweh, serve him, and give blessings in Yahweh’s name forever.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 23:13

## 1 Chronicles 23:25–26 (id: 164430)

**Why will the Levites no longer have to carry the tabernacle?**

Yahweh had given them a permanent resting place in Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 23:25–1CH 23:26

## 1 Chronicles 23:30–31 (id: 164431)

**When did the Levites take time to thank and praise Yahweh?**

They praised him every morning and evening, when they burnt offerings, on the Sabbath, at festivals and feast days.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 23:30–1CH 23:31

## 1 Chronicles 24:5 (id: 164432)

**What method did they use to divide the priests for service in the sanctuary?**

They divided them impartially by lot.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 24:5

## 1 Chronicles 24:19 (id: 164433)

**What was the procedure for Aaron’s descendants to enter Yahweh’s house?**

They were instructed by Yahweh to come into his house in a special order.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 24:19

## 1 Chronicles 24:31 (id: 164434)

**In what tradition did Aaron’s descendants participated?**

They threw lots in the presence of the king.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 24:31

## 1 Chronicles 25:1 (id: 164435)

**What did the sons Asaph, Heman and Jeduthun do with harps, stringed insturments and cymbals?**

These men prophesied with harps, stringed insturments, and cymbals.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 25:1

## 1 Chronicles 25:3 (id: 164436)

**For what did the sons of Jeduthun play the harp?**

They played the harp for giving thanks and praising Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 25:3

## 1 Chronicles 25:3 (#2) (id: 164437)

**What did God give Heman in order to honor him?**

God gave him fourteen sons and three daughters.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 25:3

## 1 Chronicles 25:8 (id: 164438)

**Which of the musicians were included when they cast lots for their duties?**

They all alike cast lots for their duties, the young as well as the old, the teacher as well as the student.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 25:8

## 1 Chronicles 26:8 (id: 164439)

**The sons and relatives of Obed Edom were capable of doing what?**

They were men capable of doing their duties in the tabernacle service.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 26:8

## 1 Chronicles 26:10 (id: 164440)

**How did Shimri become leader even though he was not the firstborn?**

Although he was not the firstborn, his father made him leader.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 26:10

## 1 Chronicles 26:12 (id: 164441)

**Where were the gatekeepers responsible to serve?**

They had responsibilities to serve in Yahweh’s house.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 26:12

## 1 Chronicles 26:15 (id: 164442)

**What was assigned to Obed Edom’s sons in addition to the south gate?**

His sons were assigned the storehouses.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 26:15

## 1 Chronicles 26:20 (id: 164443)

**Ahijah in charge of what in God’s house?**

He was in charge of the treasures of God’s house, and of the treasures of the dedicated things.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 26:20

## 1 Chronicles 26:27 (id: 164444)

**For what purpose was some of the plunder won in battles dedicated by David and the commanders?**

They dedicated some of the plunder won in battles for repairing Yahweh’s house.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 26:27

## 1 Chronicles 26:29 (id: 164445)

**Of what were Kenaniah and his sons in charge as officers and judges?**

They were in charge of the civil affairs of Israel as officers and judges.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 26:29

## 1 Chronicles 27:1 (id: 164446)

**When did each division of the army serve?**

They served month by month throughout the year.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 27:1

## 1 Chronicles 27:1 (#2) (id: 164447)

**How many men were in each division of the army?**

There were 24,000 men in each division.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 27:1

## 1 Chronicles 27:23 (id: 164448)

**Why did David not count those twenty years old or younger?**

He did not count them because Yahweh had promised to increase Israel like the stars of heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 27:23

## 1 Chronicles 27:25 (id: 164449)

**Over what was Jonathan son of Uzziah responsible?**

He was over the storehouses in the fields, in the cities, and in the villages.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 27:25

## 1 Chronicles 27:28 (id: 164450)

**What kinds of trees were in the lowlands**

Olive trees and sycamore trees were in the lowlands.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 27:28

## 1 Chronicles 27:32 (id: 164451)

**Why was Jonathan, David’s uncle an advisor?**

He was an advisor, since he was a wise man and a scribe.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 27:32

## 1 Chronicles 28:3 (id: 164452)

**Why did God say David could not build a temple for his name?**

God said that he could not build it because he was a man of war and had shed blood.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 28:3

## 1 Chronicles 28:5 (id: 164453)

**What did Yahweh choose Solomon, David’s son, to do over Israel?**

He chose Solomon to sit on the throne of the kingdom of Yahweh, over Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 28:5

## 1 Chronicles 28:7 (id: 164454)

**What did Yahweh say he would do for Solomon if he remained committed to obey his commandments?**

Yahweh said that he would establish his kingdom forever.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 28:7

## 1 Chronicles 28:8 (id: 164455)

**If all the people kept the commandments of Yahweh, what would happen to the good land they posessed?**

They would possess the good land and leave it as an inheritance to their children after them forever.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 28:8

## 1 Chronicles 28:9 (id: 164456)

**What does Yahweh understand of everyone’s thoughts?**

He understands every motivation of everyone’s thoughts.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 28:9

## 1 Chronicles 28:9 (#2) (id: 164457)

**What will happen if Solomon abandons Yahweh?**

Yahweh will reject him permanently.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 28:9

## 1 Chronicles 28:12 (id: 164458)

**What were the storerooms in God’s house and the treasuries to store?**

The storerooms and the treasuries were for the things consecrated for the temple.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 28:12

## 1 Chronicles 28:13 (id: 164459)

**Where were the priests and Levites assigned responsibilies to serve?**

Their assigned responsibilities were for the service of the house of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 28:13

## 1 Chronicles 28:19 (id: 164460)

**How was David directed in all the things he put in writing?**

Yahweh directed him and gave him to understand regarding the design.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 28:19

## 1 Chronicles 28:20 (id: 164461)

**What did David promise Solomon about Yahweh’s presence until all the work was finished?**

Yahweh would not leave him nor abandon him until all the work for the service of Yahweh’s temple was finished.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 28:20

## 1 Chronicles 28:21 (id: 164462)

**What were the officials and all the people ready to do?**

They were ready to follow Solomon’s commands.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 28:21

## 1 Chronicles 29:1 (id: 164463)

**Why did David say the task of building the temple was great?**

The task was great, for the temple is not for people, but for Yahweh God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 29:1

## 1 Chronicles 29:3 (id: 164464)

**Why did David donate his personal treasure for the house of God?**

He delighted in the house of his God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 29:3

## 1 Chronicles 29:6 (id: 164465)

**What kind of gifts were made by the leaders of the ancestors’ families?**

They made freewill offerings.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 29:6

## 1 Chronicles 29:9 (id: 164466)

**Why did the people rejoice for the freewill offerings?**

They rejoiced because they had contributed wholeheartedly to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 29:9

## 1 Chronicles 29:11 (id: 164467)

**What does David say belongs to Yahweh?**

All that is in the heavens and on the earth is Yahweh’s, as well as the kingdom.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 29:11

## 1 Chronicles 29:12 (id: 164468)

**How is Yahweh able to make people great and give them strength?**

He possesses strength and might and is able to give strength to anyone.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 29:12

## 1 Chronicles 29:14 (id: 164469)

**What did David say about the things the people gave to Yahweh?**

All things come from Yahweh, and they had simply given back to him what was his.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 29:14

## 1 Chronicles 29:17 (id: 164470)

**In what does God have pleasure when he examines the heart?**

Yahweh examines the heart and has pleasure in uprightness.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 29:17

## 1 Chronicles 29:17 (#2) (id: 164471)

**What made David look with joy on God’s people who were present?**

He looked with joy as they willingly offered gifts to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 29:17

## 1 Chronicles 29:20 (id: 164472)

**How did all the assembly bless and worship Yahweh?**

All the assembly blessed Yahweh, bowed their heads and worshiped Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 29:20

## 1 Chronicles 29:22 (id: 164473)

**With whose authority did they annoint Solomon to be ruler?**

They anointed him with Yahweh’s authority.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 29:22

## 1 Chronicles 29:25 (id: 164474)

**How did Yahweh greatly honor Solomon before all Israel?**

He bestowed on him greater power than he had ever given to any king before him in Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 29:25

## 1 Chronicles 29:28 (id: 164475)

**What two things had David enjoyed during his long life?**

He enjoyed wealth and honor.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 29:28

## 1 Chronicles 29:30 (id: 164476)

**What kingdoms were affected by David’s accomplishments, in addition to Israel?**

The prophets recorded his accomplishments and the events that affected all the kingdoms of the other lands.

* **Associated Passages:** 1CH 29:30

