# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## 2 Chronicles 1:1 (id: 165847)

**Why was Solomon, the son of David, strengthened in his rule?**

Solomon was strengthened in his rule because Yahweh was with him and made him very powerful.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 1:1

## 2 Chronicles 1:2–5 (id: 165848)

**What items were present for worship as Solomon went to the shrine that was at Gibeon?**

There was the tent of meeting or tabernacle which Moses made in the wilderness, and the bronze altar that Bezalel had made, but the ark of God had been taken from Kiriath Jearim to a tent in Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 1:2–2CH 1:5

## 2 Chronicles 1:6–7 (id: 165849)

**What did Solomon do before Yahweh approached him with the question, “What should I give you”?**

Solomon worshipped Yahweh at the bronze altar by offering one thousand burnt offerings.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 1:6–2CH 1:7

## 2 Chronicles 1:8–10 (id: 165850)

**Why did Solomon ask Yahweh to give him wisdom and knowledge?**

Solomon asked Yahweh to give him wisdom and knowledge so that he could lead the people of Israel who were many in number.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 1:8–2CH 1:10

## 2 Chronicles 1:11 (id: 165851)

**Why did God give Solomon wisdom and knowledge?**

God gave Solomon wisdom and knowledge because he did not ask for riches, wealth, honor, the death of those who hated him nor long life for himself, but for God’s help in ruling over his people.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 1:11

## 2 Chronicles 1:12 (id: 165852)

**What did God give to Solomon along with wisdom and knowledge?**

God gave Solomon what he did not ask for: riches, wealth, and honor above any of the kings before him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 1:12

## 2 Chronicles 1:14–15 (id: 165853)

**In what ways was the wealth of Solomon seen by all?**

Solomon had 1,400 chariots and twelve thousand horsemen, silver and gold were as common as stone, and cedar wood was as common as the sycamore trees in the lowlands.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 1:14–2CH 1:15

## 2 Chronicles 2:1–3 (id: 165854)

**Why did Solomon ask Hiram to send him cedar logs as he did for his father David?**

Solomon asked Hiram to send him cedar logs so he could build a house for Yahweh’s name and a palace for his kingdom.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 2:1–2CH 2:3

## 2 Chronicles 2:4–5 (id: 165855)

**Why did Solomon plan to build a house for the name of Yahweh that would be very large?**

Solomon planned to build a large house for the name of Yahweh because his God was greater than all other gods.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 2:4–2CH 2:5

## 2 Chronicles 2:7 (id: 165856)

**Who did Solomon need if he was to build a house for the name of Yahweh which reflected Yahweh’s greatness?**

Solomon needed a man who was skilled at work in gold, sliver, bronze, iron, and in purple, crimson, blue woolm and who could make all kinds of engraved wood.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 2:7

## 2 Chronicles 2:8–9 (id: 165857)

**Why did Solomon want Hiram to send him cedar, fir, and algum trees from Lebanon?**

Solomon wanted Hiram to send these trees to him so that the house which he would build for the name of Yahweh would be great and marvelous.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 2:8–2CH 2:9

## 2 Chronicles 2:11–12 (id: 165858)

**According to Hiram, why did Yahweh make Solomon the king over the people of Israel?**

According to Hiram, Yahweh made Solomon the king because Yahweh loved his people and Solomon was gifted with prudence and understanding.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 2:11–2CH 2:12

## 2 Chronicles 2:13–14 (id: 165859)

**Why did Hiram send Huramabi to Solomon?**

Hiram sent Hurambi because he was skilled at work in gold, silver, bronze, iron, stone, and in timber, and in purple, blue, crimson wool, and fine linen as well as in making any kind of engravings.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 2:13–2CH 2:14

## 2 Chronicles 2:16 (id: 165860)

**How was it possible for the wood from Lebanon to be taken to Israel?**

The wood from Lebanon was taken to Israel as rafts by sea to Joppa and then carried up to Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 2:16

## 2 Chronicles 3:1–2 (id: 165861)

**Why did Solomon begin to build the house of Yahweh at the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite on Mount Moriah?**

Solomon began to build the house of Yahweh there because that was where Yahweh had appeared to David his father.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 3:1–2CH 3:2

## 2 Chronicles 3:3 (id: 165862)

**What were the dimensions of the foundation which Solomon laid for the house of God?**

The dimensions of the foundation for the house of God was sixty cubits long and twenty cubits wide, using the old style cubit.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 3:3

## 2 Chronicles 3:4 (id: 165863)

**How high was the portico at the front of the house?**

The portico was twenty cubits.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 3:4

## 2 Chronicles 3:8–9 (id: 165864)

**What was used to overlay the most holy place?**

The most holy place was overlaid with fine gold.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 3:8–2CH 3:9

## 2 Chronicles 3:15–17 (id: 165865)

**What did Solomon put on the two pillars in front of the house of God?**

Solomon joined one hundred pomegranates to the chains which he placed on top of the pillars.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 3:15–2CH 3:17

## 2 Chronicles 4:1 (id: 165866)

**What were the dimensions for the altar of bronze?**

The altar of bronze was twenty cubits long, twenty cubits wide, and ten cubits high.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 4:1

## 2 Chronicles 4:2 (id: 165867)

**How big was the round sea of cast metal?**

The round sea was ten cubits from brim to brim. It was five cubits high and thirty cubits in circumference.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 4:2

## 2 Chronicles 4:6 (id: 165868)

**What was the purpose of the sea which Solomon built for the temple?**

The sea was for the priests to wash in.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 4:6

## 2 Chronicles 4:7 (id: 165869)

**How did Solomon know how to make the ten lampstands of gold?**

Solomon made the ten lampstands of gold from the instructions for their design.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 4:7

## 2 Chronicles 4:12–13 (id: 165870)

**What was the work which Huram finished for King Solomon in the house of God?**

Huram finished the work on the two pillars, the bowls, the decorative latticework, and the four hundred pomegranates.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 4:12–2CH 4:13

## 2 Chronicles 4:14–16 (id: 165871)

**What did Huramabi make of polished bronze for King Solomon for the house of Yahweh?**

Huramabi made the stands and the basins, one sea and the twelve bulls under it, and many implements.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 4:14–2CH 4:16

## 2 Chronicles 4:18 (id: 165872)

**What was the weight of the bronze for all of the vessels Solomon made?**

The weight of the bronze all the vessels Solomon made could not be known.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 4:18

## 2 Chronicles 4:20 (id: 165873)

**What were the lampstands with their lamps that were designed to burn before the inner room made of?**

The lampstand with their lamps were made of pure gold.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 4:20

## 2 Chronicles 5:1 (id: 165874)

**Where did Solomon put the things which David had dedicated to God?**

Solomon put all the things including the silver, gold, and all the furnishings, into the storerooms of the house of God.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 5:1

## 2 Chronicles 5:2–3 (id: 165875)

**What did Solomon decide to do next?**

Solomon assembled the leaders of Israel to bring up the ark of the covenant of Yahweh from the city of David.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 5:2–2CH 5:3

## 2 Chronicles 5:4–6 (id: 165876)

**What did King Solomon and all the assembly of Israel do when the Levites brought up the ark of the covenant?**

King Solomon and all the assembly of Israel came together sacrificing many sheep and oxen.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 5:4–2CH 5:6

## 2 Chronicles 5:7–8 (id: 165877)

**Where did the priests place the ark of the covenant of Yahweh?**

The priests placed the ark of the covenant of Yahweh in the most holy place under the wings of the cherubim.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 5:7–2CH 5:8

## 2 Chronicles 5:9–10 (id: 165878)

**What items were in the ark of the covenant?**

There was nothing in the ark of the covenant except the two tablets that Moses had put there at Horeb.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 5:9–2CH 5:10

## 2 Chronicles 5:11–12 (id: 165879)

**What did all the Levites do after the priests came out of the holy place?**

The Levites, who were clothed in fine linen, stood at the east end of the altar playing cymbals, harps, and lyres.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 5:11–2CH 5:12

## 2 Chronicles 5:13 (id: 165880)

**How did the trumpeters and singers praise Yahweh?**

The trumpeters and singers made music together, singing, “For he is good, for his covenant loyalty endures forever.”

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 5:13

## 2 Chronicles 5:14 (id: 165881)

**Why were the priests unable to stand in order to serve?**

The priests could not stand because the cloud, which was the glory of Yahweh, filled Yahweh’s house.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 5:14

## 2 Chronicles 6:1–2 (id: 165882)

**How had Solomon improved the place where Yahweh would live?**

Yahweh had said he would live in thick darkness, but Solomon built him a lofty residence in which he would live forever.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 6:1–2CH 6:2

## 2 Chronicles 6:4–6 (id: 165883)

**Where did Yahweh finally decide to live and whom did he chose to rule over Israel?**

Yahweh had chosen no city in which to build his house nor any man to be prince over Israel, but he then chose Jerusalem as the city and David to be over Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 6:4–2CH 6:6

## 2 Chronicles 6:7–9 (id: 165884)

**What did Yahweh say to David to keep him from fulfilling the desire of his heart?**

Yahweh had told David, “It was in your heart to build a house for my name, but your son will build it instead.”

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 6:7–2CH 6:9

## 2 Chronicles 6:10–11 (id: 165885)

**How did Yahweh carry out the word that he had spoken?**

Yahweh carried out the word he had spoken by having Solomon sit on David’s throne, build the house for the name of Yahweh, and place the ark within it.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 6:10–2CH 6:11

## 2 Chronicles 6:12–13 (id: 165886)

**How did Solomon stand before the altar of Yahweh?**

Solomon stood on a bronze platform, knelt down before all the assembly of Israel, and spread out his hands toward the heavens.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 6:12–2CH 6:13

## 2 Chronicles 6:14–15 (id: 165887)

**What does Yahweh do for the servants who walk before him with all their heart?**

Yahweh keeps covenant and covenant faithfulness with his servants who walk before him with all their heart.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 6:14–2CH 6:15

## 2 Chronicles 6:16–17 (id: 165888)

**What is the promise which Yahweh made to his servant David?**

Yahweh told David that he would not fail to have a man from his tribe sit on the throne of Israel if his descendants were careful to walk in Yahweh’s law.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 6:16–2CH 6:17

## 2 Chronicles 6:19–20 (id: 165889)

**What was the basic request which Solomon made of Yahweh?**

Solomon requested that Yahweh listen to his cry and prayer so that his eyes would be open on the temple day and night.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 6:19–2CH 6:20

## 2 Chronicles 6:21 (id: 165890)

**What did Solomon want Yahweh, the God of Israel, to do after Yahweh listened to the requests of Solomon and the people of Israel?**

Solomon wanted Yahweh to forgive.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 6:21

## 2 Chronicles 6:22–23 (id: 165891)

**How could a righteous man be declared innocent if he was charged with sinning against his neighbor?**

A righteous man could be declared innocent by swearing an oath before the altar in Yahweh’s house.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 6:22–2CH 6:23

## 2 Chronicles 6:24–25 (id: 165892)

**What did the people of Israel need to do when they had been defeated by an enemy because they had sinned against Yahweh?**

The people of Israel needed to turn back to Yahweh by confessing his name, praying, and requesting forgiveness before him in the temple.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 6:24–2CH 6:25

## 2 Chronicles 6:26–27 (id: 165893)

**How should the people of Israel respond when the skies are shut up and there is no rain because they have sinned against Yahweh?**

The people of Israel should pray toward the temple, confess Yahweh’s name, and turn from their sin so that rain would fall on their land.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 6:26–2CH 6:27

## 2 Chronicles 6:28–31 (id: 165894)

**What were some of the conditions where people in Israel needed Yahweh to listen to their prayers and forgive them for their sins?**

The people in Israel needed Yahweh to listen to their prayers when there was famine, disease, blight or mildew, locusts or caterpillars, when enemies attacked the city gates, or if there was any plague or sickness.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 6:28–2CH 6:31

## 2 Chronicles 6:32–33 (id: 165895)

**Why should Yahweh do what the foreigner asks of him when he came and prayed toward Yahweh’s house?**

Yahweh should do what the foreigner asked of him so that all the people groups on earth might know Yahweh’s name, fear him, and know the house which is called by his name.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 6:32–2CH 6:33

## 2 Chronicles 6:36–39 (id: 165896)

**What request did Solomon make of Yahweh?**

Solomon requested that Yahweh would listen to the confession of the people of Israel and forgive them of their sins after they had sinned, been taken captive to the land of their enemy, and repented of their sins.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 6:36–2CH 6:39

## 2 Chronicles 6:40–42 (id: 165897)

**What did Solomon want Yahweh to do?**

Solomon wanted Yahweh to be attentive to the prayers of the people, clothe his priests with salvation, and let his saints rejoice in his goodness.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 6:40–2CH 6:42

## 2 Chronicles 7:1 (id: 165898)

**What happened when Solomon finished his prayer to Yahweh?**

When Solomon finished his prayer, fire came down from heaven to consume the burnt offerings and sacrifices, and the glory of Yahweh filled the house.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 7:1

## 2 Chronicles 7:3 (id: 165899)

**What was the response of the people of Israel when the fire came down and the glory of Yahweh filled the house?**

The people of Israel bowed with their faces to the ground, worshiped, and gave thanks to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 7:3

## 2 Chronicles 7:4–5 (id: 165900)

**Why did King Solomon and all the people offer sacrifices to Yahweh?**

King Solomon and the people offered sacrifices to Yahweh to dedicate the house of God

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 7:4–2CH 7:5

## 2 Chronicles 7:7 (id: 165901)

**Why did Solomon offer burnt offerings and the fat of the fellowship offerings in the middle of the courtyard?**

The burnt offerings and the fat of the fellowship offerings were offered by Solomon in the middle of the courtyard because the bronze altar he made was not able to hold the burnt offerings, the grain offerings, and the fat.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 7:7

## 2 Chronicles 7:8–10 (id: 165902)

**Why was Solomon able to send the people of Israel away to their homes with glad and joyful hearts after the festival?**

The people were sent away by Solomon with glad and joyful hearts because of the goodness that Yahweh had shown to David, Solomon, and his people Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 7:8–2CH 7:10

## 2 Chronicles 7:11 (id: 165903)

**What was carried out by Solomon in the house of Yahweh and in Solomon’s own house?**

Everything was carried out that came into Solomon’s heart to do in the house of Yahweh and in his own house.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 7:11

## 2 Chronicles 7:14 (id: 165904)

**What did the people of Israel need to do in order for Yahweh to hear their prayer, forgive their sin, and heal their land?**

The people who were called by Yahweh’s name needed to humble themselves, pray, seek Yahweh’s face and turn from their wicked ways.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 7:14

## 2 Chronicles 7:16 (id: 165905)

**Why did Yahweh choose and consecrate his house?**

Yahweh chose and consecrated his house so that his name might be there forever.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 7:16

## 2 Chronicles 7:17–18 (id: 165906)

**What conditions did Yahweh set forth for the people of Israel to meet in order for a descendant of David to always be on the throne of his kingdom?**

Yahweh said that the people of Israel must obey all that he had commanded them and keep his statutes and decrees.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 7:17–2CH 7:18

## 2 Chronicles 7:19–20 (id: 165907)

**What would happen if the people of Israel would disobey Yahweh’s statutes and commandments and worship other gods?**

If the people of Israel would disobey Yahweh’s statues and commandments and worship other gods, then he would uproot them from the ground he had given them and the house he had consecrated and make them a joke among all the peoples.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 7:19–2CH 7:20

## 2 Chronicles 7:21–22 (id: 165908)

**What response would be given to the people who passed by the temple and were shocked at what Yahweh had done to the land and his house?**

The response would be that Yahweh had brought all this disaster upon the land and his house because his people disobeyed him and laid hold of other gods, bowing down to worship them.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 7:21–2CH 7:22

## 2 Chronicles 8:1–2 (id: 165909)

**What did Solomon do while he was building the house of Yahweh and his own house?**

During the time Solomon built the house of Yahweh and his own house, he was also rebuilding the towns which Hiram had given to him and he made the people of Israel live there.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 8:1–2CH 8:2

## 2 Chronicles 8:6 (id: 165910)

**In general where and for what purpose did Solomon build?**

Solomon built for his own pleasure in Jerusalem, Lebanon, and in all the lands under his rule.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 8:6

## 2 Chronicles 8:7–8 (id: 165911)

**What happened to the people of the land who did not belong to Israel?**

Solomon made the people who did not belong to Israel forced laborers.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 8:7–2CH 8:8

## 2 Chronicles 8:9–10 (id: 165912)

**What jobs did Solomon give the people of Israel?**

Solomon made the people of Israel his soldiers, his commanders, his officers, and the commanders of his chariot forces and horsemen.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 8:9–2CH 8:10

## 2 Chronicles 8:11 (id: 165913)

**Why did Solomon bring the daughter of Pharaoh out of the city of David to a house he had built for her?**

Solomon brought the daughter of Pharaoh out of the city of David to a house, because the ark of Yahweh was in the city and so it was a holy place.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 8:11

## 2 Chronicles 8:12–13 (id: 165914)

**How did Solomon offer burnt offerings to Yahweh on the altar he built in front of the portico?**

Solomon offered burnt offerings to Yahweh just as the daily schedule required, following the directions found in the commandment of Moses.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 8:12–2CH 8:13

## 2 Chronicles 8:14 (id: 165915)

**What were the responsibilities of the priests and the Levites?**

The priests and the Levites were appointed by Solomon to their positions in order to praise God and to serve before the priests as the daily schedule required.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 8:14

## 2 Chronicles 8:14–15 (id: 165916)

**How faithful were the gatekeepers in carrying out their responsibilities?**

The gatekeepers obeyed the commands of the king to the priests and Levites concerning any matter.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 8:14–2CH 8:15

## 2 Chronicles 8:16 (id: 165917)

**What was the sign that all of Solomon’s work on the house of Yahweh had been accomplished?**

The house of Yahweh was completely finished and put into use.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 8:16

## 2 Chronicles 9:1 (id: 165918)

**Why did the queen of Sheba come to Jerusalem?**

The queen of Sheba came to Jerusalem because she heard of Solomon’s fame and wanted to test him with hard questions.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 9:1

## 2 Chronicles 9:1–2 (id: 165919)

**How did Solomon respond when the queen of Sheba asked him all the questions that were on her heart?**

Solomon answered all the questions that the queen of Sheba asked of him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 9:1–2CH 9:2

## 2 Chronicles 9:3–4 (id: 165920)

**What was the response from the queen of Sheba when she saw Solomon’s wisdom and all the buildings, food, clothing, and servants he had in his possession?**

When the queen of Sheba saw all the possessions which Solomon had, there was no more spirit in her.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 9:3–2CH 9:4

## 2 Chronicles 9:6 (id: 165921)

**What was the queen of Sheba’s assessment of king Solomon?**

The queen of Sheba told King Solomon that his wisdom and wealth exceeded what she had heard about him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 9:6

## 2 Chronicles 9:8 (id: 165922)

**What did the queen of Sheba say to remind Solomon how he had come to be on the throne of Israel as their king?**

The queen of Sheba reminded Solomon that Yahweh had made him king over Israel and had placed him on the throne because Yahweh loved Israel and wanted to establish it forever.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 9:8

## 2 Chronicles 9:12 (id: 165923)

**What was the outcome of the queen of Sheba’s trip to see King Solomon?**

King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba everything she asked for in addition to what she had brought to the king, and then she left and went back to her own land.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 9:12

## 2 Chronicles 9:13 (id: 165924)

**How much gold came to Solomon in one year?**

The weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was 666 talents.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 9:13

## 2 Chronicles 9:14 (id: 165925)

**Who brought gold to Solomon?**

The traders, the merchants, all the kings of Arabia and the governors in the country brought gold to Solomon.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 9:14

## 2 Chronicles 9:16 (id: 165926)

**How many gold shields did Solomon make?**

King Solomon made five hundred shields of beaten gold.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 9:16

## 2 Chronicles 9:17 (id: 165927)

**What was King Solomon’s throne made of?**

King Solomon’s throne was made of ivory overlaid with the finest gold.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 9:17

## 2 Chronicles 9:20 (id: 165928)

**Why were none of King Solomon’s drinking cups made of silver?**

None of King Solomon’s drinking cups were made of silver because silver was not considered valuable in Solomon’s day.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 9:20

## 2 Chronicles 9:22–23 (id: 165929)

**Why did all the earth seek the presence of Solomon?**

All the earth sought the presence of Solomon because of his riches, and in order to hear his wisdom which God had put in his heart.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 9:22–2CH 9:23

## 2 Chronicles 9:26 (id: 165930)

**What kings did Solomon rule over?**

King Solomon ruled over all the kings from the Euphrates River to the land of the Philistines, and to the border of Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 9:26

## 2 Chronicles 9:29–30 (id: 165931)

**How long did Solomon reign as king in Jerusalem over all Israel?**

Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel for forty years.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 9:29–2CH 9:30

## 2 Chronicles 10:1 (id: 165932)

**Why was all of Israel coming to Shechem?**

All of Israel was coming to Shechem to make Rehoboam their king.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 10:1

## 2 Chronicles 10:2 (id: 165933)

**What stood in the way of Rehoboam becoming the king of all Israel?**

Jeroboam’s return from exile in Egypt stood in the way of Rehoboam becoming king of all Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 10:2

## 2 Chronicles 10:3–4 (id: 165934)

**What request did Jeroboam and all Israel make of Rehoboam?**

Jeroboam and all Israel asked Rehoboam to lighten the heavy yoke that King Solomon had put on them.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 10:3–2CH 10:4

## 2 Chronicles 10:6–7 (id: 165935)

**What did the old men, who had stood before Solomon when he was alive, advise King Rehoboam to do?**

The old men advised King Rehoboam to be good to the people and please them with good words, and then they would always be his servants.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 10:6–2CH 10:7

## 2 Chronicles 10:8–9 (id: 165936)

**What did Rehoboam do after he ignored the advice the old men gave him?**

Rehoboam consulted with the young men who had grown up with him, by asking them how he should respond to the request to lighten the load of the people.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 10:8–2CH 10:9

## 2 Chronicles 10:10–11 (id: 165937)

**What advice did the young men who had grown up with Rehoboam give him concerning the request of the people to lighten their load?**

The young men advised Rehoboam to tell the people that although my father burdened you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 10:10–2CH 10:11

## 2 Chronicles 10:12–14 (id: 165938)

**What happened when Jeroboam and all the people of Israel came to Rehoboam on the third day?**

King Rehoboam ignored the advice of the old men and answered them roughly by following the advice of the young men.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 10:12–2CH 10:14

## 2 Chronicles 10:15 (id: 165939)

**Why did King Rehoboam not listen to the people of Israel?**

The king’s decision not to listen to the people of Israel was a turn of events brought about by Yahweh to carry out the word he had spoken by Ahijah to Jeroboam.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 10:15

## 2 Chronicles 10:16 (id: 165940)

**What was Israel’s response to King Rehoboam’s statement that he would make their yoke heavier?**

When Israel heard from King Rehoboam, the people of Israel said they did not have any share in David, told the people of Israel to go back to their tents, and told Rehoboam to see to his own house.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 10:16

## 2 Chronicles 10:18 (id: 165941)

**How did the people of Israel respond when King Rehoboam sent Adoniram, who was over the forced laborers, to them?**

The people of Israel stoned Adoniram to death and King Rehoboam fled in his chariot to Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 10:18

## 2 Chronicles 11:1 (id: 165942)

**Why did Rehoboam assemble the house of Judah and Benjamin to fight against Israel when he arrived in Jerusalem?**

Rehoboam assembled the house of Judah and Benjamin in order to restore the kingdom to himself.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 11:1

## 2 Chronicles 11:2–4 (id: 165943)

**What message from Yahweh did Shemaiah deliver to Rehoboam and all of Israel?**

The message from Yahweh was that they must not attack or fight against their brothers.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 11:2–2CH 11:4

## 2 Chronicles 11:5–10 (id: 165944)

**Why did Rehoboam build cities in Judah?**

Rehoboam built cities in Judah for defense.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 11:5–2CH 11:10

## 2 Chronicles 11:11–12 (id: 165945)

**What were some of the accomplishments of Rehoboam?**

Rehoboam fortified the fortresses, put commanders in them, and put shields and spears in every city.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 11:11–2CH 11:12

## 2 Chronicles 11:13–14 (id: 165946)

**Why did the Levites leave their pasture lands and property in order to come to Judah and Jerusalem?**

The Levites left their pastureland and property because Jeroboam and his sons had driven them away, so that they could no longer perform priestly duties for Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 11:13–2CH 11:14

## 2 Chronicles 11:14–15 (id: 165947)

**How did Jeroboam replace the priests and Levites who moved to Judah?**

Jeroboam appointed for himself priests for the shrines and the idols of calves and goats that he had made.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 11:14–2CH 11:15

## 2 Chronicles 11:16–17 (id: 165948)

**What did people from the tribes of Israel do to strengthen Rehoboam and the kingdom of Judah?**

People, who set their hearts to seek Yahweh, came from all the tribes of Israel to Jerusalem to sacrifice to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 11:16–2CH 11:17

## 2 Chronicles 11:22–23 (id: 165949)

**What was one way in which Rehoboam ruled wisely?**

Rehoboam ruled wisely by scattering all his sons throughout all the land of Judah and Benjamin to every fortified city.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 11:22–2CH 11:23

## 2 Chronicles 12:1 (id: 165950)

**What wrong thing did Rehoboam do when his reign was established?**

Rehoboam and all Israel abandoned the law of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 12:1

## 2 Chronicles 12:2 (id: 165951)

**Why did Shishak, king of Egypt, come up against Jerusalem?**

Shishak came up against Jerusalem because the people had been unfaithful to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 12:2

## 2 Chronicles 12:5–6 (id: 165952)

**What was the response of Rehoboam and the leaders of Judah when Shemaiah the prophet told them they had been given over into Shishak’s hand because they had forsaken Yahweh?**

Rehoboam and the leaders of Judah humbled themselves and proclaimed that Yahweh was righteous.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 12:5–2CH 12:6

## 2 Chronicles 12:7 (id: 165953)

**How did Yahweh respond when he saw that Rehoboam and the leaders of Judah had humbled themselves?**

Yahweh rescued them to some extent, but still allowed them to become servants under Shishak.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 12:7

## 2 Chronicles 12:8 (id: 165954)

**Why did Yahweh allow the leaders of Judah to become the servants of Shishak?**

Yahweh allowed them to become servants of Shishak so they could understand what it was to serve him as well as to serve the rulers of other countries.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 12:8

## 2 Chronicles 12:9 (id: 165955)

**What did Shishak take away from Jerusalem?**

Shishak took away the treasures in the house of Yahweh and the king’s house, as well as the shields of gold that Solomon made.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 12:9

## 2 Chronicles 12:12 (id: 165956)

**Why was Yahweh’s anger turned away from Rehoboam?**

Yahweh’s anger was turned away because Rehoboam humbled himself and there was still some good to be found in Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 12:12

## 2 Chronicles 12:13–14 (id: 165957)

**Why was it said that “King Rehoboam did what was evil”?**

It was said that Rehoboam did what was evil because he did not fix his heart to seek Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 12:13–2CH 12:14

## 2 Chronicles 12:16 (id: 165958)

**What happened after Rehoboam died and was buried in Jerusalem?**

Abijah his son became king in his place.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 12:16

## 2 Chronicles 13:2 (id: 165959)

**Against whom did Abijah fight?**

Abijah fought against Jeroboam.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 13:2

## 2 Chronicles 13:4 (id: 165960)

**Where is Mount Zemaraim?**

Mount Zemaraim is in the hill country of Ephraim.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 13:4

## 2 Chronicles 13:7 (id: 165961)

**Who gathered to Jeroboam?**

Worthless men, base fellows, gathered to Jeroboam.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 13:7

## 2 Chronicles 13:8 (id: 165962)

**According to Abijah, who said he could resist the ruling might of Yahweh?**

According to Abijah, Jeroboam said he could resist the ruling might of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 13:8

## 2 Chronicles 13:10 (id: 165963)

**Who had not forsaken Yahweh?**

Abijah’s nation, Judah, had not forsaken him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 13:10

## 2 Chronicles 13:12 (id: 165964)

**Who would not succeed if they fought against Yahweh?**

The people of Israel would not succeed if they fought against Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 13:12

## 2 Chronicles 13:13 (id: 165965)

**What was Jeroboam’s plan for the battle?**

Jeroboam prepared an ambush behind them; his army was in front of Judah, and the ambush was behind them.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 13:13

## 2 Chronicles 13:18 (id: 165966)

**Why did the people of Judah win?**

The people of Judah won because they relied on Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 13:18

## 2 Chronicles 13:20 (id: 165967)

**How did Jeroboam die?**

Yahweh struck him, and he died.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 13:20

## 2 Chronicles 14:2–3 (id: 165968)

**What actions of Asa were proof that he did what was good and right in the eyes of Yahweh?**

Asa took away the foreign altars and the shrines, broke down the sacred stone pillars, and cut down the Asherah poles.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 14:2–2CH 14:3

## 2 Chronicles 14:5–6 (id: 165969)

**Why was the land quiet and there were no wars during the reign of Asa?**

The land was quiet and there were no wars during the reign of Asa because Yahweh had given him peace.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 14:5–2CH 14:6

## 2 Chronicles 14:7 (id: 165970)

**Why did Asa make plans to build walled cities?**

Asa made plans to build walled cities because Yahweh had given them the land along with peace on every side.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 14:7

## 2 Chronicles 14:9–11 (id: 165971)

**What was Asa’s response when the vast army of Zerah the Ethiopian came against the people of Israel?**

Asa cried out to Yahweh for his help by acknowledging that he and his army were coming in Yahweh’s name against the vast army of Zerah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 14:9–2CH 14:11

## 2 Chronicles 14:12 (id: 165972)

**Who struck the Ethiopians before Asa and Judah?**

Yahweh struck the Ethiopians before Asa and Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 14:12

## 2 Chronicles 14:14 (id: 165973)

**What did the army do to the villages around Gerar?**

The army destroyed and plundered the villages around Gerar.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 14:14

## 2 Chronicles 15:1–2 (id: 165974)

**What message from God did Azariah deliver to King Asa?**

The message was that Yahweh was with Asa, while Asa was with Yahweh, but if Asa left Yahweh, Yahweh would leave Asa.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 15:1–2CH 15:2

## 2 Chronicles 15:3 (id: 165975)

**What was Israel without for a long time?**

Israel was without the true God, a teaching priest, and the law for a long time.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 15:3

## 2 Chronicles 15:5 (id: 165976)

**In those times, what were on all the inhabitants of the lands?**

In those times, great troubles were on all the inhabitants of the lands.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 15:5

## 2 Chronicles 15:6 (id: 165977)

**How did God trouble the inhabitants of the lands?**

God troubled the inhabitants of the lands with all kinds of suffering.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 15:6

## 2 Chronicles 15:8 (id: 165978)

**What did Asa rebuild when he heard the prophet’s message?**

Asa rebuilt the altar of Yahweh when he heard the prophet’s message.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 15:8

## 2 Chronicles 15:9 (id: 165979)

**Why did great numbers of people come to King Asa from Ephraim, Manasseh, and Simeon?**

They came because they saw that Yahweh was with King Asa.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 15:9

## 2 Chronicles 15:12 (id: 165980)

**What did the people make a covenant to do?**

The people made a covenant to seek Yahweh with all their heart and with all their soul.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 15:12

## 2 Chronicles 15:13 (id: 165981)

**What would happen to anyone who refused to seek Yahweh?**

Anyone who refused to seek Yahweh would be put to death.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 15:13

## 2 Chronicles 15:15 (id: 165982)

**What did Yahweh give the people after they swore to him with all their heart?**

Yahweh gave the people peace all around them.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 15:15

## 2 Chronicles 15:17 (id: 165983)

**What was the condition of King Asa’s heart?**

King Asa’s heart was completely devoted to Yahweh all his days.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 15:17

## 2 Chronicles 15:19 (id: 165984)

**What did not occur until Asa’s thirty\-fifth year of reigning?**

There was no war until Asa’s thirty\-fifth year of reigning.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 15:19

## 2 Chronicles 16:1 (id: 165985)

**Why did Baasha, king of Israel, act aggressively against Judah by building up Ramah?**

Baasha acted aggressively so he might not allow anyone to leave or enter into the land of Asa.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 16:1

## 2 Chronicles 16:2–3 (id: 165986)

**Why did Asa bring the silver and gold out of the storerooms and send it to Benhadad, king of Aram?**

Asa sent the silver and gold to Ben Hadad to encourage him to break his treaty with Baasha and establish a treaty with Asa.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 16:2–2CH 16:3

## 2 Chronicles 16:3 (id: 165987)

**Why did Asa want Ben Hadad to break his treaty with Baasha?**

Asa wanted Ben Hadad to break the treaty so that Baasha would leave Asa alone.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 16:3

## 2 Chronicles 16:4–6 (id: 165988)

**What happened when Baasha stopped building up Ramah due to the attacks from Ben Hadad?**

Asa and all Judah carried away the stones and timbers which Baasha was using to build up Ramah and used them to build up Geba and Mizpah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 16:4–2CH 16:6

## 2 Chronicles 16:7–8 (id: 165989)

**Why did Hanani the seer rebuke Asa?**

Hanani rebuked Asa because he relied on a treaty with the king of Aram instead of relying on Yahweh as he did against the Ethiopians.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 16:7–2CH 16:8

## 2 Chronicles 16:9 (id: 165990)

**Why do the eyes of Yahweh run everywhere throughout the whole earth?**

The eyes of Yahweh run everywhere to show himself strong on behalf of those whose hearts are perfect toward him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 16:9

## 2 Chronicles 16:10 (id: 165991)

**What was Asa’s reaction to the rebuke of Hanani?**

Asa was angry with Hanani and put him into prison.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 16:10

## 2 Chronicles 16:12 (id: 165992)

**How did Asa react to the severe disease of his feet?**

Asa did not seek help from Yahweh, but only from physicians.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 16:12

## 2 Chronicles 16:14 (id: 165993)

**How was Asa honored after his death?**

The people laid Asa on a bier filled with various spices and made a very great fire in his honor.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 16:14

## 2 Chronicles 17:2 (id: 165994)

**Where did Jehoshaphat place forces?**

Jehoshaphat placed forces in all the fortified cities of Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 17:2

## 2 Chronicles 17:3 (id: 165995)

**Why was Yahweh with Jehoshaphat?**

Yahweh was with Jehoshaphat because he walked in the first ways of his father David.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 17:3

## 2 Chronicles 17:4 (id: 165996)

**Whose behavior did Jehoshaphat not walk after, because he walked in God’s commandments?**

He walked in God’s commandments, not after the behavior of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 17:4

## 2 Chronicles 17:6 (id: 165997)

**On what was Jehoshaphat’s heart fixed?**

Jehoshaphat’s heart was fixed on Yahweh’s ways.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 17:6

## 2 Chronicles 17:9 (id: 165998)

**What book did the officials and Levites and priests have when they taught in Judah?**

They taught in Judah, having the book of the law of Yahweh with them.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 17:9

## 2 Chronicles 17:10 (id: 165999)

**What did the monarchies around Judah not do because the terror of Yahweh fell on them?**

The terror of Yahweh fell on them that were around Judah, so that they made no war against Jehoshaphat.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 17:10

## 2 Chronicles 17:12 (id: 166000)

**What two things did Jehoshaphat build in Judah?**

Jehoshaphat built fortresses and store cities in Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 17:12

## 2 Chronicles 17:16 (id: 166001)

**What did Amasiah, the son of Zichri, willingly offer?**

Amasiah willingly offered to serve Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 17:16

## 2 Chronicles 17:17 (id: 166002)

**What kind of man was Eliada from Benjamin?**

Eliada was a powerful man of courage.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 17:17

## 2 Chronicles 18:1 (id: 166003)

**How did Jehoshaphat ally himself with Ahab?**

Jehoshaphat allied himself with Ahab by having one of his family marry his daughter.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 18:1

## 2 Chronicles 18:4 (id: 166004)

**What did Jehoshaphat tell the king of Israel to do to find his answer?**

Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, “Please first seek the word of Yahweh for your answer.”

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 18:4

## 2 Chronicles 18:7 (id: 166005)

**Why did the king of Israel hate Micaiah the son of Imlah?**

The king of Israel hated Micaiah because he never prophesied anything good about the king, but only hardships.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 18:7

## 2 Chronicles 18:11 (id: 166006)

**Who did the prophets say had given Ramoth Gilead into the hand of the king?**

They all prophesied saying that Yahweh had given Ramoth Gilead into the hand of the king.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 18:11

## 2 Chronicles 18:12 (id: 166007)

**What did the messenger tell Micaiah the words of the prophets declared to the king?**

The messenger told Micaiah that the words of the prophets declared good things to the king with one mouth.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 18:12

## 2 Chronicles 18:16 (id: 166008)

**To what did Micaiah compare Israel when he saw them scattered on the mountains?**

Micaiah said that he saw all Israel scattered on the mountains, like sheep who have no shepherd.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 18:16

## 2 Chronicles 18:18 (id: 166009)

**When Micaiah saw Yahweh on his throne where were the hosts of heaven?**

Micaiah saw Yahweh sitting on his throne, and all the host of heaven were standing on his right hand and on his left.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 18:18

## 2 Chronicles 18:19 (id: 166010)

**What was Yahweh asking to happen when Ahab went up to Ramoth Gilead?**

Yahweh was asking for one to entice Ahab, king of Israel, so that he would go up and fall at Ramoth Gilead.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 18:19

## 2 Chronicles 18:21 (id: 166011)

**To whom was the spirit going to become a lying spirit?**

The spirit said that he would go out and become a lying spirit in the mouth of all Ahab’s prophets.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 18:21

## 2 Chronicles 18:22 (id: 166012)

**What did Micaiah say Yahweh had decreed for the king of Israel?**

Micaiah said that Yahweh had decreed disaster for him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 18:22

## 2 Chronicles 18:26 (id: 166013)

**Where was Micaiah to be until the king of Israel returned safely?**

The king said to put Micaiah in prison until he returned safely.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 18:26

## 2 Chronicles 18:27 (id: 166014)

**If the king returned safely, what did that mean about Micaiah’s words?**

Micaiah said that if the king returned safely, then Yahweh had not spoken by him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 18:27

## 2 Chronicles 18:30 (id: 166015)

**Who had the king of Aram told the captains to attack?**

The king of Aram told the captains of his chariots not to attack the soldiers, but instead, to attack only the king of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 18:30

## 2 Chronicles 18:32 (id: 166016)

**What did the commanders do when they realized Jehoshaphat was not the king of Israel?**

When the commanders saw that he was not the king of Israel, they turned back from pursuing him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 18:32

## 2 Chronicles 18:34 (id: 166017)

**What time of day was it when Ahab died?**

About the time that the sun was going down, Ahab died.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 18:34

## 2 Chronicles 19:3 (id: 166018)

**What good was found in Jehoshaphat’s heart?**

Some good was found in Jehoshaphat, that he had fixed his heart to seek God.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 19:3

## 2 Chronicles 19:5 (id: 166019)

**Where did Jehoshaphat place judges?**

Jehoshaphat placed judges in the land throughout all the fortified cities of Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 19:5

## 2 Chronicles 19:6 (id: 166020)

**Where did Jehoshaphat say Yahweh was when the judges passed judgement?**

He told the judges that Yahweh was with them in the act of judging.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 19:6

## 2 Chronicles 19:9 (id: 166021)

**What kind of heart did Jehoshaphat say the judges in Jerusalem should have in reverence for Yahweh?**

Jehoshaphat instructed them that in reverence for Yahweh, judge faithfully, and with a perfect heart.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 19:9

## 2 Chronicles 19:10 (id: 166022)

**What would not come down on them if the people did not sin against Yahweh?**

The people were told not to sin against Yahweh, so that anger would not come down on them.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 19:10

## 2 Chronicles 19:11 (id: 166023)

**With whom did Jehoshaphat pray that Yahweh abides?**

Jehoshaphat prayed for Yahweh to be with those who were good.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 19:11

## 2 Chronicles 20:1 (id: 166024)

**For what reason did the people of Moab, Ammon, and the Meunites come against Jehoshaphat?**

They came against Jehoshaphat to do battle.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:1

## 2 Chronicles 20:4 (id: 166025)

**Where did the people of Judah come from to seek Yahweh?**

The people came to seek Yahweh from all the cities of Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:4

## 2 Chronicles 20:5 (id: 166026)

**Where did Jehoshaphat stand in the assembly of the people?**

Jehoshaphat stood at the house of Yahweh, in front of the new courtyard.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:5

## 2 Chronicles 20:9 (id: 166027)

**What promise of Yahweh did Jehoshaphat repeat when the people cried to him in their affliction?**

Jehoshaphat said that when the people cry to Yahweh in their affliction, he would hear them and save them.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:9

## 2 Chronicles 20:10 (id: 166028)

**What did Yahweh not let Israel do to Ammon, Moab and Mount Seir when they came out of Egypt?**

Yahweh would not let Israel invade them when they came out of the land of Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:10

## 2 Chronicles 20:13 (id: 166029)

**What part of the people of Judah stood before Yahweh?**

All Judah stood before Yahweh, with their little ones, wives, and children.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:13

## 2 Chronicles 20:15 (id: 166030)

**Why did Yahweh say not to fear or be discouraged by the great army against them?**

Yahweh told them not to fear or be discouraged because of this great army, for the battle did not belong to them, but to God.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:15

## 2 Chronicles 20:17 (id: 166031)

**What did Yahweh say the people would see when they stood still in their positions?**

Yahweh told them to stand still, and see the rescue of Yahweh with them.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:17

## 2 Chronicles 20:18 (id: 166032)

**What did Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem do in worship before Yahweh?**

All Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell down before Yahweh, worshiping him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:18

## 2 Chronicles 20:21 (id: 166033)

**As the army went out, why did Jehoshaphat say to give thanks to Yahweh?**

As they went out preceding the army, Jehoshaphat told them to say, “Give thanks to Yahweh; for his covenant faithfulness endures forever.”

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:21

## 2 Chronicles 20:22 (id: 166034)

**What did Yahweh do when the people of Judah began to sing and praise?**

When they began to sing and praise, Yahweh set men in ambush against their enemies.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:22

## 2 Chronicles 20:24 (id: 166035)

**What did the people of Judah see when they looked out on the enemy’s army?**

When they looked out on the army, they were dead, fallen to the ground.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:24

## 2 Chronicles 20:25 (id: 166036)

**How long did it take the people to carry off the plunder from the army?**

It took the people three days to carry off the plunder, because there was so much of it.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:25

## 2 Chronicles 20:27 (id: 166037)

**Why did Jehoshophat and his people return to Jerusalem with joy?**

They returned to Jerusalem with joy for Yahweh had made them rejoice over their enemies.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:27

## 2 Chronicles 20:30 (id: 166038)

**What did God give Jehoshaphat that made his kingdom quiet?**

Jehoshaphat’s kingdom was quiet, for his God gave him peace all around him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:30

## 2 Chronicles 20:32 (id: 166039)

**What had Jehoshaphat done in the eyes of Yahweh?**

Jehoshaphat did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:32

## 2 Chronicles 20:37 (id: 166040)

**What was prophesied against Jehoshaphat, because he allied himself with Ahaziah?**

Because Jehoshaphat had allied himself with Ahaziah, Yahweh destroyed his projects.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 20:37

## 2 Chronicles 21:3 (id: 166041)

**Why did Jehoshaphat give the throne to Jehoram?**

Jehoshaphat gave the throne to Jehoram because Jehoram was his firstborn.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 21:3

## 2 Chronicles 21:4 (id: 166042)

**What did Jehoram do to his brothers after he was established as king?**

When Jehoram had firmly established himself as king, he killed all his brothers with the sword.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 21:4

## 2 Chronicles 21:7 (id: 166043)

**Why did Yahweh not wish to destroy the house of David?**

Yahweh did not wish to destroy the house of David because of the covenant he had made with David.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 21:7

## 2 Chronicles 21:10 (id: 166044)

**Why did Libnah revolt from the power of Judah?**

They revolted from Judah’s power, because Jehoram had forsaken Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 21:10

## 2 Chronicles 21:11 (id: 166045)

**What did Jehoram build in the mountains of Judah?**

Jehoram also built shrines in the mountains of Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 21:11

## 2 Chronicles 21:15 (id: 166046)

**What did Elijah say would happen to Jehoram’s intestines in his sickness?**

Jehoram would have much sickness until his intestines fell out because of the sickness.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 21:15

## 2 Chronicles 21:17 (id: 166047)

**What did the Philistines and Arabians carry away from the king’s house?**

They carried away all the wealth that was found in the king’s house.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 21:17

## 2 Chronicles 21:19 (id: 166048)

**What did his people not do for Jehoram that they had done for his ancestors?**

His people made no fire in his honor as they had done for his ancestors.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 21:19

## 2 Chronicles 22:3 (id: 166049)

**In whose ways did Ahaziah walk because of the advice of his mother?**

Ahaziah walked in the ways of the house of Ahab, for his mother was his adviser in doing wicked things.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 22:3

## 2 Chronicles 22:4 (id: 166050)

**How did Ahaziah act in Yahweh’s sight, as the house of Ahab was doing?**

Ahaziah did what was evil in Yahweh’s sight, as the house of Ahab was doing.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 22:4

## 2 Chronicles 22:6 (id: 166051)

**Why did Ahaziah go to visit Joram, the son of Ahab?**

Ahaziah went down to Jezreel to see him because Joram had been wounded.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 22:6

## 2 Chronicles 22:7 (id: 166052)

**What did God bring about through Ahaziah’s visit to Joram?**

The destruction of Ahaziah was brought about by God through his visit to Joram.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 22:7

## 2 Chronicles 22:9 (id: 166053)

**What did Jehu recall of Ahaziah’s father?**

Jehu said that Ahaziah was a son of Jehoshaphat, who sought Yahweh with all his heart.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 22:9

## 2 Chronicles 22:10 (id: 166054)

**What did Ahaziah’s mother do when she saw that he was dead?**

When she saw that her son was dead, she arose and killed all the royal children in the house of Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 22:10

## 2 Chronicles 22:12 (id: 166055)

**How long was Joash hidden in the house of God while Athaliah reigned?**

Joash was hidden in the house of God for six years while Athaliah reigned over the land.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 22:12

## 2 Chronicles 23:3 (id: 166056)

**What made Jehoiada bold to speak to the leaders that the king’s son would reign?**

Jehoiada said the king’s son would reign, as Yahweh had said concerning the descendants of David.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 23:3

## 2 Chronicles 23:4 (id: 166057)

**What work was assigned to the priests and Levites serving on the Sabbath?**

Those who come to serve on the Sabbath would be guards at the doors.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 23:4

## 2 Chronicles 23:7 (id: 166058)

**When were the Levites told to stay with the king?**

They were told to stay with the king when he came in and when he went out.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 23:7

## 2 Chronicles 23:8 (id: 166059)

**How completely did the Levites and all Judah follow Jehoiada’s command?**

They served in every way in the manner in which Jehoiada the priest commanded.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 23:8

## 2 Chronicles 23:11 (id: 166060)

**What did they give to the king’s son when they put the crown on him?**

They brought out the king’s son, put the crown on him, and gave him the covenant decrees.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 23:11

## 2 Chronicles 23:12 (id: 166061)

**What noise made Athaliah come to the people in the house of Yahweh?**

When she heard the noise of the people running and praising the king, she came to the people in the house of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 23:12

## 2 Chronicles 23:13 (id: 166062)

**What did Athaliah do while shouting out “Treason!”?**

She tore her clothes and shouted, “Treason!”

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 23:13

## 2 Chronicles 23:14 (id: 166063)

**What did Jehoiada command to be done to anyone who followed Athaliah?**

Jehoiada said to let anyone who followed her be killed with the sword.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 23:14

## 2 Chronicles 23:16 (id: 166064)

**What covenant did Jehoiada make between himself, the people, and the king?**

Jehoiada made a covenant between himself, all the people, and the king, that they should be Yahweh’s people.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 23:16

## 2 Chronicles 23:19 (id: 166065)

**Whom did Jehoiada keep from entering the house of Yahweh by setting guards at the gates?**

Jehoiada set guards at the gates of the house of Yahweh, so that no one that was unclean in any way should enter.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 23:19

## 2 Chronicles 23:20 (id: 166066)

**Where did Jehoiada and the people set the king after coming through the Upper Gate?**

The people came through the Upper Gate to the king’s house and sat the king on the throne of the kingdom.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 23:20

## 2 Chronicles 24:2 (id: 166067)

**How long did Joash do what was right in the eyes of Yahweh?**

Joash did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh all the days of Jehoiada, the priest.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 24:2

## 2 Chronicles 24:5 (id: 166068)

**For what work did Joash send the priests and Levites out to gather money from all Israel?**

Joash sent them to gather from all Israel money to repair the house of their God.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 24:5

## 2 Chronicles 24:7 (id: 166069)

**What had the sons of Athaliah taken from the house of Yahweh and given to the Baals?**

They had given all the dedicated furnishings of the house of Yahweh to the Baals.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 24:7

## 2 Chronicles 24:8 (id: 166070)

**Where was the chest the king had commanded to be made placed?**

The king commanded, and they made a chest and placed it outside at the entrance to the house of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 24:8

## 2 Chronicles 24:10 (id: 166071)

**What part of the people rejoiced and brought money to put into the chest?**

All the leaders and all the people rejoiced and brought money in and put it into the chest.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 24:10

## 2 Chronicles 24:11 (id: 166072)

**As the officials emptied the chest day after day what did they gather?**

They emptied the chest day after day, gathering large amounts of money.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 24:11

## 2 Chronicles 24:13 (id: 166073)

**How did the workmen set up the house of God as they repaired it?**

The workmen set up the house of God in its original design and strengthened it.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 24:13

## 2 Chronicles 24:16 (id: 166074)

**Why was Jehoiada buried among the kings in the city of David?**

They buried him in the city of David among the kings, because he had done good in Israel, toward God, and to God’s house.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 24:16

## 2 Chronicles 24:19 (id: 166075)

**What did the people do when Yahweh sent prophets to testify against them?**

Yahweh sent prophets who testified against the people, but they refused to listen.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 24:19

## 2 Chronicles 24:20 (id: 166076)

**Why did Zechariah tell the people Yahweh had forsaken them?**

Zechariah told the people that since they had forsaken Yahweh, Yahweh had also forsaken them.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 24:20

## 2 Chronicles 24:22 (id: 166077)

**How did King Joash ignore the kindness that Zechariah’s father had done to him?**

In this manner, Joash, the king, ignored the kindness that Jehoiada, Zechariah’s father, had done to him. Instead, he killed Jehoiada’s son.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 24:22

## 2 Chronicles 24:24 (id: 166078)

**What did Yahweh give the small army of the Arameans because Judah had forsaken him?**

The Arameans had come with a small army, but Yahweh gave them victory over a very great army, because Judah had forsaken Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 24:24

## 2 Chronicles 24:25 (id: 166079)

**Why did the servants of Joash plot against him?**

Joash’s own servants plotted against him because of the murder of the sons of Jehoiada, the priest.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 24:25

## 2 Chronicles 25:1 (id: 166080)

**How old was Amaziah when he began to reign and how long did he reign?**

Amaziah was twenty\-five years old when he began to reign and he reigned for twenty\-nine years.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:1

## 2 Chronicles 25:2 (id: 166081)

**What was the condition of Amaziah’s heart?**

Amaziah’s heart was not perfectly devoted to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:2

## 2 Chronicles 25:3–4 (id: 166082)

**Why did Amaziah not kill the children of the servants who had murdered his father, the king?**

Amaziah did not kill the children of the servants who had murdered his father because the laws in the book of Moses said that the children must not die for the fathers, but that every person must die for his own sin.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:3–2CH 25:4

## 2 Chronicles 25:5–6 (id: 166083)

**How did Amaziah add to the 300,000 chosen men from Judah and Benjamin that were registered by their ancestor’s houses?**

Amaziah hired 100,000 fighting men from Israel to add to the 300,00 chosen men from Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:5–2CH 25:6

## 2 Chronicles 25:7 (id: 166084)

**Why did the man of God tell the king he should not let the army of Israel go with him?**

The man of God told the king the army of Israel should not go with him because Yahweh was not with Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:7

## 2 Chronicles 25:8 (id: 166085)

**What did the man of God say would happen even if Amaziah was courageous and strong in battle?**

The man of God said that God would throw him down before the enemy.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:8

## 2 Chronicles 25:9 (id: 166086)

**How did the man of God answer Amaziah’s question about what to do about the one hundred talents that he had given to the army of Israel?**

The man of God told Amaziah that Yahweh was able to give him much more than that.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:9

## 2 Chronicles 25:10 (id: 166087)

**Why was the anger of the army from Ephraim kindled against Judah?**

Their anger was kindled against Judah because Amaziah separated the army and sent them home.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:10

## 2 Chronicles 25:11 (id: 166088)

**What happened to the ten thousand men of Seir when Amaziah led his people out to the Valley of Salt?**

Amaziah led his people out to the Valley of Salt and he defeated ten thousand men of Seir.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:11

## 2 Chronicles 25:12 (id: 166089)

**What did the army of Judah do to the additional ten thousand men of Seir who they carried away alive?**

The army of Judah threw the men of Seir down from the top of the cliff.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:12

## 2 Chronicles 25:13 (id: 166090)

**What did the army of Israel do to the cities of Judah from Samaria to Bethhoron?**

The army of Israel attacked the cities, struck down three thousand of the people and took much plunder.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:13

## 2 Chronicles 25:14 (id: 166091)

**What did Amaziah do with the gods that he brought back from the people of Seir?**

Amaziah set the gods up to be his own gods, bowed down before them, and burned incense to them.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:14

## 2 Chronicles 25:15 (id: 166092)

**What did the prophet sent by Yahweh ask Amaziah about the gods of the people of Seir?**

The prophet asked Amaziah why he sought after the gods of a people whose gods did not even save their own people from the hand of Amaziah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:15

## 2 Chronicles 25:16 (id: 166093)

**What did the prophet say was God’s reason for his decision to destroy Amaziah?**

The reason God decided to destroy Amaziah was that Amaziah had done this deed and had not listened to the advice of the prophet.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:16

## 2 Chronicles 25:17 (id: 166094)

**What was the message that Amaziah sent to Jehoash, king of Israel?**

Amaziah sent a message asking Jehoash to come and meet with Amaziah face to face in battle.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:17

## 2 Chronicles 25:18–19 (id: 166095)

**Why did the messengers of Jehoash tell Amaziah that he should stay at home?**

The messengers of Jehoash told Amaziah to stay at home because both Amaziah and Judah would fall.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:18–2CH 25:19

## 2 Chronicles 25:20 (id: 166096)

**Why would God hand over the people of Judah into the hand of their enemies?**

God would hand them over to their enemies because they had sought advice from the gods of Edom.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:20

## 2 Chronicles 25:21–22 (id: 166097)

**What was the result when Jehoash, king of Israel, and Amaziah, king of Judah, met each other face to face at Beth Shemesh?**

The result was that Judah was struck down before Israel and every man fled home.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:21–2CH 25:22

## 2 Chronicles 25:23–24 (id: 166098)

**To what place did Jehoash return after he tore down the wall of Jerusalem and took many valuable objects from the temple and palace, along with hostages?**

Jehoash returned to Samaria after he tore down the wall of Jerusalem and took all the valuables and hostages.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:23–2CH 25:24

## 2 Chronicles 25:25 (id: 166099)

**For how many years did Amaziah, king of Judah, live after the death of Jehoash, king of Israel?**

Amaziah lived fifteen years after the death of Jehoash.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:25

## 2 Chronicles 25:26 (id: 166100)

**Where are other matters written concerning Amaziah?**

Other matters concerning Amaziah are written in The Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:26

## 2 Chronicles 25:27 (id: 166101)

**What was begun against Amaziah after he turned away from following Yahweh?**

After Amaziah turned away from following Yahweh, a conspiracy was begun against him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:27

## 2 Chronicles 25:27–28 (id: 166102)

**Where was Amaziah buried after he was killed in Lachish?**

Amaziah was buried with his ancestors in the City of Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 25:27–2CH 25:28

## 2 Chronicles 26:1 (id: 166103)

**Who made Uzziah king after the death of his father Amaziah?**

The people of Judah took Uzziah and made him king in place of his father Amaziah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:1

## 2 Chronicles 26:2 (id: 166104)

**What did Uzziah do to the town of Eloth after he became king?**

Uzziah rebuilt Eloth and restored it to Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:2

## 2 Chronicles 26:4–5 (id: 166105)

**How did Uzziah follow the example of his father in his relationship to Yahweh?**

Uzziah did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh and set himself to seek God.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:4–2CH 26:5

## 2 Chronicles 26:5 (id: 166106)

**What happened to Uzziah as long as he sought Yahweh?**

As long as Uzziah sought Yahweh, God made him prosper.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:5

## 2 Chronicles 26:6–8 (id: 166107)

**What was the result of God helping Uzziah as he fought against his enemies?**

God helped Uzziah fight against his enemies, and his fame spread to other lands, and he became very powerful.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:6–2CH 26:8

## 2 Chronicles 26:9–10 (id: 166108)

**What did Uzziah build at the gates in Jerusalem and in the wilderness?**

Uzziah built towers at the corner gates of Jerusalem and at the turning wall. He also built watch towers in the wilderness.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:9–2CH 26:10

## 2 Chronicles 26:10 (id: 166109)

**Why did Uzziah build watch towers, and why did he dig cisterns in the wilderness?**

Uzziah built watch towers and dug cisterns in the wilderness because he had cattle and people who farmed and he loved farming.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:10

## 2 Chronicles 26:11 (id: 166110)

**How did Uzziah’s army make war?**

Uzziah’s army made war with mighty power to help the king against the enemy.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:11

## 2 Chronicles 26:13 (id: 166111)

**How did Uzziah’s army make war?**

Uzziah’s army made war with mighty power to help the king against the enemy.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:13

## 2 Chronicles 26:14–15 (id: 166112)

**What was invented by skillful men in Jerusalem as Uzziah equipped his army?**

In Jerusalem, Uzziah built engines that were invented by skillful men.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:14–2CH 26:15

## 2 Chronicles 26:15 (id: 166113)

**How far did Uzziah’s fame spread when he was greatly helped by Yahweh, until he became very powerful?**

Uzziah’s fame spread to distant lands.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:15

## 2 Chronicles 26:16 (id: 166114)

**How did Uzziah trespass against Yahweh, his God, when he became powerful?**

Uzziah trespassed against Yahweh when he went into the house of Yahweh to burn incense on the altar of incense.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:16

## 2 Chronicles 26:17–18 (id: 166115)

**Why did Azariah and the eighty priests go in after Uzziah, and why did Azariah say that Uzziah had trespassed when he burned incense in the sanctuary?**

The priests told Uzziah that it is only the priests, the sons of Aaron, who are consecrated to burn incense in the sanctuary, so Uzziah had trespassed when he burned incense to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:17–2CH 26:18

## 2 Chronicles 26:19 (id: 166116)

**What happened to Uzziah as he was holding a censer in his hand to burn incense, and when he was angry with the priests?**

While Uzziah was holding a censer, and when he became angry with the priests, leprosy broke out on his forehead.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:19

## 2 Chronicles 26:20 (id: 166117)

**Why did leprosy break out on Uzziah’s forehead?**

Leprosy broke out on Uzziah’s forehead because Yahweh had struck him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:20

## 2 Chronicles 26:21 (id: 166118)

**Why did Uzziah have to live in a separate house until the day of his death?**

Uzziah had to live in a separate house because he was a leper and he was cut off from the house of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:21

## 2 Chronicles 26:23 (id: 166119)

**Who became king after Uzziah died and was buried with his ancestors?**

Jotham, Uzziah’s son, became king in his place.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 26:23

## 2 Chronicles 27:1 (id: 166120)

**How old was Jotham when he became king of Judah and how long did he reign?**

Jotham was twenty\-five years old when he became king and he reigned for sixteen years in Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 27:1

## 2 Chronicles 27:2 (id: 166121)

**How did the people of Judah behave even though Jotham did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh?**

The people of Judah still behaved in evil ways, even though Jotham did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 27:2

## 2 Chronicles 27:3 (id: 166122)

**What did Jotham build in Jerusalem?**

Jotham built the upper gate of the house of Yahweh, and he built much on the hill of Ophel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 27:3

## 2 Chronicles 27:4 (id: 166123)

**What did Jotham build in the hill country and forests of Judah?**

Jotham built cities in the hill country, and castles and towers in the forests of Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 27:4

## 2 Chronicles 27:5 (id: 166124)

**Why did the people of Ammon give Jotham silver, wheat, and barley?**

The people of Ammon gave Jotham silver, wheat, and barley because he fought with them and defeated them.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 27:5

## 2 Chronicles 27:6 (id: 166125)

**Why did Jotham become powerful?**

Jotham became powerful because he walked firmly before Yahweh his God.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 27:6

## 2 Chronicles 27:9 (id: 166126)

**Where was Jotham buried when he died?**

Jotham was buried in the city of David.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 27:9

## 2 Chronicles 27:9 (#2) (id: 166127)

**Who became king of Judah after the death of Jotham?**

Ahaz, Jotham’s son, became king in his place.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 27:9

## 2 Chronicles 28:1 (id: 166128)

**What did Ahaz not do as David his ancestor had done?**

Ahaz did not do what was right in the eyes of Yahweh, as David his ancestor had done.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:1

## 2 Chronicles 28:2 (id: 166129)

**What did Ahaz make as he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel?**

Ahaz made cast metal figures for the Baals.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:2

## 2 Chronicles 28:3 (id: 166130)

**What did Ahaz do to his children in addition to making figures of Baal, offering incense, and following after the wickedness of the people groups which Yahweh had driven out before the people of Israel?**

Ahaz put his children in fire as burnt offerings.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:3

## 2 Chronicles 28:5–6 (id: 166131)

**What was the cause of the defeats of Ahaz at the hand of the Arameans and also at the hand of the king of Israel?**

Ahaz was defeated by the Arameans and the king of Israel because he and his people had forsaken Yahweh, the God of their ancestors.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:5–2CH 28:6

## 2 Chronicles 28:8 (id: 166132)

**What did the army of Israel take back to Samaria?**

The army of Israel took captives from their kinsmen, and they also took much plunder which they carried back to Samaria.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:8

## 2 Chronicles 28:9 (id: 166133)

**Who went out to meet the army coming into Samaria?**

Obed, a prophet of Yahweh, came out to meet the army.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:9

## 2 Chronicles 28:9 (#2) (id: 166134)

**What was the accusation that Obed brought against the army?**

Obed accused the army of slaughtering the people of Judah in a rage that reached up to heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:9

## 2 Chronicles 28:10–11 (id: 166135)

**What did Obed tell the army of Israel to do with the prisoners they had taken as slaves from Jerusalem?**

Obed told the army to send the prisoners back, because Yahweh’s fierce wrath was on them.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:10–2CH 28:11

## 2 Chronicles 28:13 (id: 166136)

**What did the leaders of the people of Ephraim say was the reason they should not bring the prisoners to Samaria?**

The leaders said it would add to their sins against Yahweh and bring his fierce wrath against Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:13

## 2 Chronicles 28:14–15 (id: 166137)

**What did the leaders do with the prisoners when the armed men left the prisoners before them?**

The leaders clothed them, gave them sandals, gave them food to eat and drink, treated their wounds, put the weak on donkeys, and took them back to their families in Jericho.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:14–2CH 28:15

## 2 Chronicles 28:16–18 (id: 166138)

**What made it necessary for King Ahaz to send messengers to the kings of Assyria asking for help?**

It was necessary for Ahaz to ask the kings of Assyria for help because the Edomites had attacked Judah and the Philistines had invaded the cities of the lowlands and of the Negev of Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:16–2CH 28:18

## 2 Chronicles 28:19 (id: 166139)

**What did Ahaz do which caused Yahweh to bring Judah low?**

Judah was brought low because Ahaz had acted wickedly and had sinned against Yahweh very heavily.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:19

## 2 Chronicles 28:21 (id: 166140)

**Why did Ahaz plunder the house of Yahweh and the houses of the king and the leaders?**

Ahaz plundered the house of Yahweh and the houses of the king and the leaders in order to give the valuable things to the kings of Assyria.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:21

## 2 Chronicles 28:22–23 (id: 166141)

**What brought on the ruin Ahaz and all of Israel?**

Ahaz sinned against Yahweh and sacrificed to the gods of Damascus.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:22–2CH 28:23

## 2 Chronicles 28:24 (id: 166142)

**What did Ahaz do to the furnishings of the house of God?**

Ahaz cut the furnishings to pieces and shut the doors of the house of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:24

## 2 Chronicles 28:24–25 (id: 166143)

**What was the result of Ahaz making altars for himself in every corner of Jerusalem, and making shrines to burn sacrifices to other gods in every city of Judah?**

The result of Ahaz’s actions was that he provoked to anger Yahweh, the God of his ancestors.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:24–2CH 28:25

## 2 Chronicles 28:26 (id: 166144)

**Where are the rest of Ahaz’s deeds recorded?**

The rest of Ahaz’s deeds are recorded in The Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:26

## 2 Chronicles 28:27 (id: 166145)

**Who became king after Ahaz died and was buried in Jerusalem?**

Hezekiah, Ahaz’s son, became king in his place.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 28:27

## 2 Chronicles 29:1–2 (id: 166146)

**What example did Hezekiah follow when he began to reign at the age of twenty\-five?**

Hezekiah followed the example of his ancestor David and did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:1–2CH 29:2

## 2 Chronicles 29:3–5 (id: 166147)

**What did Hezekiah tell the Levites to do after he had opened the doors of the house of Yahweh and had repaired them?**

Hezekiah told the Levites to consecrate themselves, consecrate the house of Yahweh, and carry away the filthiness from the holy place.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:3–2CH 29:5

## 2 Chronicles 29:6 (id: 166148)

**What did Hezekiah say that their ancestors did in the sight of Yahweh?**

Hezekiah said that their ancestors trespassed and did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh their God.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:6

## 2 Chronicles 29:6–7 (id: 166149)

**What did their ancestors not do in the place where Yahweh lived?**

Their ancestors did not burn incense or offer burnt offerings in the holy place to the God of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:6–2CH 29:7

## 2 Chronicles 29:8 (id: 166150)

**What was the result of Yahweh’s wrath falling on Judah and Jerusalem?**

Yahweh made Judah and Jerusalem to be an object of terror, horror, and scorn.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:8

## 2 Chronicles 29:9 (id: 166151)

**What happened to their fathers, sons, daughters, and wives because of the wrath of Yahweh?**

Their fathers fell by the sword and their sons, daughters, and wives were brought into captivity because of the wrath of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:9

## 2 Chronicles 29:10 (id: 166152)

**What did Hezekiah propose to do so that Yahweh’s fierce anger might turn away from them?**

Hezekiah proposed that they make a covenant with Yahweh, the God of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:10

## 2 Chronicles 29:15 (id: 166153)

**What did the Levites do after they gathered their brothers?**

The Levites and their brothers, dedicated themselves to Yahweh, and went in to cleanse the house of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:15

## 2 Chronicles 29:16 (id: 166154)

**What did the priests do with all the filth that they found in the temple of Yahweh as they cleansed it?**

The priests took all the filth and carried it out to the brook Kidron.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:16

## 2 Chronicles 29:17 (id: 166155)

**How long did it take the priests to sanctify the house of Yahweh?**

The priests began on the first day of the first month and on the sixteenth day of the first month they finished.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:17

## 2 Chronicles 29:18–19 (id: 166156)

**What did the priests tell Hezekiah they had prepared and sanctified in addition to cleansing all the house of Yahweh?**

In addition to cleansing all the house of Yahweh, the priests prepared and sanctified all the implements that King Ahaz threw away when he trespassed during his reign.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:18–2CH 29:19

## 2 Chronicles 29:20–21 (id: 166157)

**What did Hezekiah command the priests to do with the animals they brought as a sin offering for Judah?**

Hezekiah told the priests to offer the animals on the altar of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:20–2CH 29:21

## 2 Chronicles 29:22–24 (id: 166158)

**Why did the priests kill the animals and splash their blood on the altar?**

The priests killed the animals and splashed their blood on the altar to make atonement for all Israel. A burnt offering and a sin offering had to be made for all Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:22–2CH 29:24

## 2 Chronicles 29:25 (id: 166159)

**From whom did the command come for arranging the Levites and their instruments in the house of Yahweh?**

The command came from Yahweh by means of his prophets.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:25

## 2 Chronicles 29:27–28 (id: 166160)

**How long did the singing and playing of music continue as all the assembly worshiped and the burnt offering began?**

The singing and music continued until the burnt offering was finished.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:27–2CH 29:28

## 2 Chronicles 29:30 (id: 166161)

**What was the attitude of the Levites as they sang praises to Yahweh using the words of David and Asaph?**

The Levites sang praises with gladness and they bowed down and worshiped.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:30

## 2 Chronicles 29:31 (id: 166162)

**What did the assembly bring into the house of Yahweh?**

The assembly brought in sacrifices and thank offerings, and all who had a willing heart brought burnt offerings.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:31

## 2 Chronicles 29:32–33 (id: 166163)

**What kinds of animals did the assembly bring to be used as burnt offerings?**

The assembly brought bulls, rams, lambs, oxen, and sheep to be used as burnt offerings.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:32–2CH 29:33

## 2 Chronicles 29:34 (id: 166164)

**Why did the priests have to ask the Levites to help skin the burnt offerings?**

The priests had to ask the Levites to help them skin the burnt offerings because the priests were too few to do the work themselves.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:34

## 2 Chronicles 29:35–36 (id: 166165)

**What did Hezekiah and all the people do when the service of the house of Yahweh was set in order?**

Hezekiah and all the people rejoiced.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 29:35–2CH 29:36

## 2 Chronicles 30:1 (id: 166166)

**To where did Hezekiah send messengers and to whom did he write letters?**

Hezekiah sent messengers to all of Israel and Judah, and wrote letters to Ephraim and Manasseh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:1

## 2 Chronicles 30:1 (#2) (id: 166167)

**What did Hezekiah’s message tell them?**

The message told them they should come to Jerusalem to the house of Yahweh to celebrate the Passover.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:1

## 2 Chronicles 30:2 (id: 166168)

**Who were they that consulted together, to celebrate the Passover in the second month?**

They were the king, his leaders, and all the assembly in Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:2

## 2 Chronicles 30:3 (id: 166169)

**Why could they not celebrate the Passover right away?**

They could not celebrate the Passover right away, because there were not sufficient numbers of consecrated priests, nor had the people gathered in Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:3

## 2 Chronicles 30:4 (id: 166170)

**How did this plan appear to the king and all the assembly?**

The plan appeared to be right in their eyes.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:4

## 2 Chronicles 30:5 (id: 166171)

**What did the king and all the assembly establish and make?**

They established a decree and made a proclamation.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:5

## 2 Chronicles 30:5 (#2) (id: 166172)

**To where did the proclamation go?**

The proclamation went throughout all Israel, from Beersheba to Dan.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:5

## 2 Chronicles 30:5 (#3) (id: 166173)

**What did the proclamation say?**

The proclamation said the people should come to celebrate the Passover of Yahweh in Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:5

## 2 Chronicles 30:6 (id: 166174)

**By what means did the proclamation go?**

The proclamation went with couriers by letters from the king and his leaders to all of Israel and Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:6

## 2 Chronicles 30:9 (id: 166175)

**What did the proclamation say would happen if the people turned back to Yahweh?**

The brothers and children would find compassion before those who had taken them as prisoners, and would come back into Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:9

## 2 Chronicles 30:10 (id: 166176)

**Where did the couriers go and how did the people respond?**

The couriers went from city to city throughout Ephraim and Manasseh all the way to Zebulun, but the people responded to them with laughing and mocking.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:10

## 2 Chronicles 30:11 (id: 166177)

**Who humbled themselves and what did they do?**

Certain men of Asher, Manasseh, and Zebulun humbled themselves and came to Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:11

## 2 Chronicles 30:12 (id: 166178)

**What did the hand of God do and what happened?**

The hand of God came on Judah and they had one heart to carry out the command.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:12

## 2 Chronicles 30:13 (id: 166179)

**How many gathered in Jerusalem to celebrate the Festival of Unleavened Bread in the second month?**

Many people, a very great assembly, gathered in Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:13

## 2 Chronicles 30:14–15 (id: 166180)

**What did those gathered in Jerusalem do?**

They took away the altars, all the altars for incense, and threw them into the Kidron. Then they killed the Passover lambs on the fourteenth day of the second month.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:14–2CH 30:15

## 2 Chronicles 30:15 (id: 166181)

**What did the priests and Levites who were ashamed do?**

They consecrated themselves and brought burnt offerings into the house of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:15

## 2 Chronicles 30:16 (id: 166182)

**How did they stand and what did the priests do?**

They stood in their divisions following the law of Moses, and the priests sprinkled blood.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:16

## 2 Chronicles 30:17 (id: 166183)

**Why did the priests sprinkle the blood they received from the Levites?**

Because many had not consecrated themselves, the Levites were in charge of slaughtering the Passover lambs, and the priests received it from them to sprinkle.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:17

## 2 Chronicles 30:18–19 (id: 166184)

**Why did Hezekiah pray for the people of Ephraim, Manasseh, Issachar, and Zebulun, and for what did he pray?**

Many of the people had not purified themselves and ate the Passover meal against the written instructions. So Hezekiah prayed for Yahweh to pardon those who set their hearts to seek God, although they were not purified by the standards of the sanctuary.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:18–2CH 30:19

## 2 Chronicles 30:20 (id: 166185)

**What did Yahweh do in response to the prayer?**

Yahweh listened to Hezekiah and healed the people.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:20

## 2 Chronicles 30:21 (id: 166186)

**What did the people of Israel, the Levites, and the priests do?**

The people kept the Festival for seven days with great joy. The Levites and priests praised Yahweh singing with loud instruments.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:21

## 2 Chronicles 30:22 (id: 166187)

**How did Hezekiah speak to the Levites who understood the service of Yahweh, and what did they do?**

Hezekiah encouraged them and they ate throughout the festival for seven days, offering fellowship sacrifices, and making confession to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:22

## 2 Chronicles 30:23–24 (id: 166188)

**What did the whole assembly decide to do when Hezekiah gave the assembly one thousand bulls and seven thousand sheep, and the leaders gave one thousand bulls and ten thousand sheep and goats?**

The whole assembly decided to celebrate for another seven days, and they did with joy.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:23–2CH 30:24

## 2 Chronicles 30:25 (id: 166189)

**Who were all those that rejoiced in the celebration?**

All the assembly of Judah, the priests, the Levites, and all the people who came together from Israel, the foreigners who came from Israel and those who lived in Judah rejoiced.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:25

## 2 Chronicles 30:26 (id: 166190)

**How was the celebration described?**

There was great joy in Jerusalem, and since the time of Solomon, there had not been anything like it in Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:26

## 2 Chronicles 30:27 (id: 166191)

**What did the priests and Levites do next in the celebration?**

They blessed the people and their voice was heard and their prayer went up to heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 30:27

## 2 Chronicles 31:1 (id: 166192)

**What did the Israelites do after celebrating the Festival of the Unleavened Bread?**

The people of Israel went out to the cities of Judah, broke the sacred stone pillars, cut down the Asherah poles, broke down the shrines and altars in Judah, Benjamin, Ephraim and Manasseh, until they had destroyed them all.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:1

## 2 Chronicles 31:1 (#2) (id: 166193)

**Where did the people of Israel go after they did this?**

They returned to their own land and city.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:1

## 2 Chronicles 31:2 (id: 166194)

**What did Hezekiah assign the priests and the Levites to do after he organized them by their divisions?**

Hezekiah assigned them to make burnt offerings, fellowship offerings, to serve, to give thanks, and to praise at the gates of Yahweh’s temple.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:2

## 2 Chronicles 31:3 (id: 166195)

**What portion did Hezekiah assign and when was it to be offered?**

The portion was to be a king’s portion from his own possessions, and the burnt offerings were for the morning, evening, Sabbath days, the new moons, and the fixed festivals.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:3

## 2 Chronicles 31:4 (id: 166196)

**What did Hezekiah command the people of Jerusalem to do so the priests and Levites might concentrate on obeying the law of Yahweh?**

The people were to give a portion for the priests and Levites.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:4

## 2 Chronicles 31:5 (id: 166197)

**What happened when the command went out to the people?**

The people of Israel gave the first fruits of grain, new wine, oil, honey, and from the harvest of the field to all in abundance. They also gave the tithe of all things.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:5

## 2 Chronicles 31:6 (id: 166198)

**What did the people in the cities of Judah do about the command?**

The people in the cities of Judah brought the tithe of oxen, sheep, and a tithe of things that were consecrated to Yahweh, laying them in heaps.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:6

## 2 Chronicles 31:7 (id: 166199)

**What were the months when the people laid the heaps?**

The people laid the heaps beginning in the third month and finishing the heaps in the seventh month.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:7

## 2 Chronicles 31:8 (id: 166200)

**Who blessed Yahweh and the people when they saw the heaps?**

Hezekiah and the leaders blessed Yahweh and the people.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:8

## 2 Chronicles 31:9–10 (id: 166201)

**How did Azariah, the chief priest, answer Hezekiah when he asked the priests and the Levites about the heaps?**

Azariah answered that the people brought the tithes and put them in these large heaps. He told Hezekiah that they had eaten enough, and these heaps were left over because Yahweh had blessed the people.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:9–2CH 31:10

## 2 Chronicles 31:11–12 (id: 166202)

**What did Hezekiah command to be prepared and what did the people do?**

Hezekiah commanded storerooms be prepared in the house of Yahweh. Then the people prepared them and brought in the offerings, tithes, and consecrated things.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:11–2CH 31:12

## 2 Chronicles 31:12 (id: 166203)

**Who did Hezekiah and Azariah appoint to be managers in charge of the storerooms?**

Hezekiah and Azariah appointed Conaniah manager in charge with Conaniah’s brother, Shimei, as manager second in charge.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:12

## 2 Chronicles 31:16 (id: 166204)

**To whom did Kore and those with him distribute the offerings?**

They distributed to those males three years old and up, division by division, who were counted in the genealogies that entered the house of Yahweh that did the work in their positions.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:16

## 2 Chronicles 31:17 (id: 166205)

**Who was counted next to receive the offerings?**

They gave to the Levites twenty years old and up that were filling their positions division by division.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:17

## 2 Chronicles 31:18 (id: 166206)

**What had the people done before receiving the offerings from Kore and those with him?**

The people had consecrated themselves before the distribution to all their little ones, their wives, and their sons and daughters, who were counted in their genealogies.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:18

## 2 Chronicles 31:19 (id: 166207)

**What was done for the priests who were counted in the genealogies as being among the Levites?**

There were men assigned to give portions to all the males who were in the fields of the villages that belonged to the cities or in every city.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:19

## 2 Chronicles 31:20 (id: 166208)

**Where did Hezekiah accomplish this and how was it done?**

Hezekiah accomplished this throughout all Judah and it was done good, right, and faithful before Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:20

## 2 Chronicles 31:21 (id: 166209)

**In what way did Hezekiah perform each project, and what was the result?**

Hezekiah performed all these projects with all his heart, and he succeeded.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 31:21

## 2 Chronicles 32:1 (id: 166210)

**What did Sennacherib, king of Assyria, do to Judah?**

He entered Judah and attacked the cities.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:1

## 2 Chronicles 32:2–4 (id: 166211)

**With what did Hezekiah ask his leaders to help?**

He asked them to stop up all the springs and streams so the king of Assyria would not find water.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:2–2CH 32:4

## 2 Chronicles 32:5 (id: 166212)

**What did Hezekiah do to guard against the enemy’s attack?**

He built up the walls and made a large amounts of weapons.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:5

## 2 Chronicles 32:6–8 (id: 166213)

**What encouraging words did Hezekiah give to his people?**

He told them to be strong, of good courage, and not be afraid because Yahweh, who is greater than their enemy, will help them fight.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:6–2CH 32:8

## 2 Chronicles 32:9–10 (id: 166214)

**Why did Sennacherib send his servants to Jerusalem?**

He wanted to know what Hezekiah was relying on for a victory.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:9–2CH 32:10

## 2 Chronicles 32:11 (id: 166215)

**How did Sennacherib try to persuade the people that Hezekiah was misleading them?**

He said they might die of famine and thirst and questioned whether Yahweh would rescue them.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:11

## 2 Chronicles 32:13–14 (id: 166216)

**What did Sennacherib and his ancestors do to other people and their lands?**

Because their gods could not help them, they were completely destroyed.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:13–2CH 32:14

## 2 Chronicles 32:14–15 (id: 166217)

**Why did Sennacherib say the Israelites should not believe Hezekiah?**

Sennacherib wanted to mislead the people into believing that God would not rescue them from his powerful hand.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:14–2CH 32:15

## 2 Chronicles 32:16–17 (id: 166218)

**What did Sennacherib do to mock Yahweh?**

He wrote letters to speak against Yahweh, to remind the people of Jerusalem of the past, and that Hezekiah’s God will not rescue them.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:16–2CH 32:17

## 2 Chronicles 32:18 (id: 166219)

**Why did Sennacherib’s servants cry in the Jews’ language to the people of Jerusalem?**

The servants wanted to frighten the people so they might capture the city.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:18

## 2 Chronicles 32:20–21 (id: 166220)

**How did Yahweh respond when Hezekiah and Isaiah prayed and cried out to heaven?**

He sent an angel, who killed the fighting men and the officers.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:20–2CH 32:21

## 2 Chronicles 32:21 (id: 166221)

**What happened to Sennacherib after the angel killed his army?**

Sennacherib returned embarrassed to his own land, where his children killed him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:21

## 2 Chronicles 32:22–23 (id: 166222)

**How was Hezekiah exalted?**

Yahweh saved Hezekiah from Sennacherib and others. Precious gifts were brought to Yahweh and Hezekiah by many.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:22–2CH 32:23

## 2 Chronicles 32:24–26 (id: 166223)

**What happened to Hezekiah when he didn’t give thanks to Yahweh when he was deathly sick?**

God’s anger came on him, and Judah and Jerusalem. After he and the people of Jerusalem humbled themselves, Yahweh’s anger did not come on them for the rest of Hezekiah’s life.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:24–2CH 32:26

## 2 Chronicles 32:27–29 (id: 166224)

**After Hezekiah humbled himself what did God give him?**

God abundantly blessed him with precious stones, much harvest, many animals, and cities.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:27–2CH 32:29

## 2 Chronicles 32:30–31 (id: 166225)

**Why did God leave Hezekiah to himself after Hezekiah succeeded in all his projects?**

God wanted to test him and know what was in his heart.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:30–2CH 32:31

## 2 Chronicles 32:32 (id: 166226)

**Where are Hezekiah’s good deeds written?**

They are written in The Vision of Isaiah the Prophet and in The Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 32:32

## 2 Chronicles 33:1–3 (id: 166227)

**What kind of a king was Manasseh for fifty\-five years?**

He did evil things in the sight of Yahweh, rebuilt idols that Hezekiah had torn down, and worshiped the stars of heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 33:1–2CH 33:3

## 2 Chronicles 33:6 (id: 166228)

**What did he do to provoke God to anger?**

Manasseh offered his children as burnt offerings, performed sorcery, and consulted with those that talked with the dead.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 33:6

## 2 Chronicles 33:7 (id: 166229)

**What did Manasseh do to lead the people of Judah and Jerusalem to do evil?**

He broke the commandments by placing the carved figure in the house of God.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 33:7

## 2 Chronicles 33:10–11 (id: 166230)

**What happened to Manasseh when Yahweh spoke to him and the people?**

Because they paid no attention, Yahweh had the army of the king of Assyria put Manasseh in chains and take him to Babylon.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 33:10–2CH 33:11

## 2 Chronicles 33:12–13 (id: 166231)

**What did Manasseh do so that God would bring him back to Jerusalem?**

He humbled himself, prayed, and begged God.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 33:12–2CH 33:13

## 2 Chronicles 33:14–15 (id: 166232)

**After Manasseh prayed, what action did he take to show his remorse?**

He built a high wall around Judah and took away foreign gods, the idol that he had placed in God’s house, and all the altars he had built.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 33:14–2CH 33:15

## 2 Chronicles 33:17 (id: 166233)

**To whom did the people offer sacrifices at the shrines?**

They offered sacrifices only to Yahweh at the shrines.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 33:17

## 2 Chronicles 33:18 (id: 166234)

**How were Manasseh’s prayers and important matters preserved?**

Manasseh’s important matters, prayers, and words of the seers are recorded with the deeds of the kings of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 33:18

## 2 Chronicles 33:21–23 (id: 166235)

**What kind of king was Amon during his two\-year reign?**

He was more evil than his father, he worshiped carved figures, and he did not humble himself before Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 33:21–2CH 33:23

## 2 Chronicles 33:24 (id: 166236)

**After King Amon’s servants killed him, what did the people of the land do to those who killed him?**

The people of the land killed all the servants who put Amon to death.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 33:24

## 2 Chronicles 34:1–3 (id: 166237)

**Although King Josiah was only eight years old when he became king, what did he do during his reign that pleased Yahweh?**

He sought after God, he began to cleanse Judah and Jerusalem from the shrines, idols, and carved figures.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 34:1–2CH 34:3

## 2 Chronicles 34:4–5 (id: 166238)

**How did Josiah cleanse Judah and Jerusalem?**

He destroyed the altars, broke the Asherah poles, carved figures, and cast metal figures and the dust he scattered on the graves. The bones of the priests he burned on their altars.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 34:4–2CH 34:5

## 2 Chronicles 34:6–7 (id: 166239)

**What did Josiah do in the land of Israel before he returned to Jerusalem?**

He repeated the cleansing that he did in Judah and Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 34:6–2CH 34:7

## 2 Chronicles 34:8–9 (id: 166240)

**Where did the money come from that would be used to repair the house of Yahweh?**

The money had been collected from the people of Jerusalem and entrusted to the high priest.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 34:8–2CH 34:9

## 2 Chronicles 34:10–11 (id: 166241)

**To whom was the money distributed and for what was it used?**

Carpenters and builders bought stone and timber to repair the temple.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 34:10–2CH 34:11

## 2 Chronicles 34:12–13 (id: 166242)

**What roles did the Levites play in the repair of the temple?**

Some were supervisors, secretaries, administrators, and gate guards; others were good musicians and directed the faithful workmen.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 34:12–2CH 34:13

## 2 Chronicles 34:14 (id: 166243)

**What did the priest find when he brought out the money that had been brought into the house of Yahweh?**

The high priest found the book of the law of Yahweh that had been given through Moses.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 34:14

## 2 Chronicles 34:19 (id: 166244)

**What did the king do after hearing the words of the law?**

King Josiah tore his clothes.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 34:19

## 2 Chronicles 34:25 (id: 166245)

**Why will God’s anger be poured out on the people and not cease?**

They have forsaken him by worshiping other gods as their ancestors had done.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 34:25

## 2 Chronicles 34:26–28 (id: 166246)

**Because Josiah’s heart was tender, what happened when he humbled himself after hearing God’s words?**

God said he would give him peace, and he would not see any of the disasters that God would bring on the people and land.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 34:26–2CH 34:28

## 2 Chronicles 34:29–30 (id: 166247)

**Why did Josiah have all the people, great and small, gather together?**

Josiah read to them from the book of the covenant.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 34:29–2CH 34:30

## 2 Chronicles 34:31–32 (id: 166248)

**What covenant did Josiah make with Yahweh?**

He made a covenant before Yahweh to keep his commandments.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 34:31–2CH 34:32

## 2 Chronicles 34:33 (id: 166249)

**What did the people of Israel do to obey Josiah?**

They worshiped Yahweh and did not turn away from him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 34:33

## 2 Chronicles 35:1–2 (id: 166250)

**How did Josiah keep the Passover in Jerusalem?**

He had the Passover lambs killed and placed the priests in their positions in the house of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 35:1–2CH 35:2

## 2 Chronicles 35:3 (id: 166251)

**Where did Josiah tell the people to put the holy ark instead of carrying it on their shoulders?**

They were told to put the holy ark in the house that Solomon built.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 35:3

## 2 Chronicles 35:6 (id: 166252)

**How were the people to get ready for the Passover?**

The people were to kill the Passover lambs and consecrate themselves in obedience to God’s word.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 35:6

## 2 Chronicles 35:11–12 (id: 166253)

**How did the people of Israel offer their sacrifices to Yahweh?**

They killed the Passover lamb, splashed the blood, skinned the lambs, and offered the burnt offerings to Yahweh, as was written in the book of Moses.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 35:11–2CH 35:12

## 2 Chronicles 35:16–17 (id: 166254)

**What did the people of Israel do after the Passover celebration?**

They celebrated the Festival of Unleavened Bread for seven days.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 35:16–2CH 35:17

## 2 Chronicles 35:18 (id: 166255)

**Why was this celebration of the Passover so special?**

It was special because this is the first time it had been held in Israel since the days of the prophet Samuel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 35:18

## 2 Chronicles 35:20–21 (id: 166256)

**What was the message that the king of Egypt brought to Josiah?**

He said God had commanded him to fight against Carchemish and that Josiah should not interfere.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 35:20–2CH 35:21

## 2 Chronicles 35:22 (id: 166257)

**What was Josiah’s reaction to the message from the king of Egypt?**

He did not listen to the king’s words, but instead, Josiah disguised himself so he could fight.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 35:22

## 2 Chronicles 35:23–24 (id: 166258)

**What happened to Josiah on the battle field?**

He was shot by archers and his servants took him to Jerusalem, where he later died.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 35:23–2CH 35:24

## 2 Chronicles 35:25 (id: 166259)

**What are the songs of lament that have become customary in Israel?**

They are songs that have been sung to lament for Josiah and are still sung.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 35:25

## 2 Chronicles 35:26–27 (id: 166260)

**Where are the matters of Josiah and his good deeds recorded?**

They are contained in The Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 35:26–2CH 35:27

## 2 Chronicles 36:1–2 (id: 166261)

**After Josiah died, who became king of Jerusalem?**

The people of the land made Josiah’s son, Jehoahaz, king and he reigned for three months.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 36:1–2CH 36:2

## 2 Chronicles 36:3–4 (id: 166262)

**How did Eliakim become king of Judah and Jerusalem?**

His brother, the king of Egypt, removed Jehoahaz after three months and made Eliakim king, changing his name to Jehoiakim.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 36:3–2CH 36:4

## 2 Chronicles 36:5 (id: 166263)

**What kind of ruler was Jehoiakim in his reign of eleven years?**

Jehoiakim was evil in the sight of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 36:5

## 2 Chronicles 36:6 (id: 166264)

**What did King Nebuchadnezzar, of Babylon, do to the king of Judah?**

He attacked him, bound him in chains, and took him to Babylon.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 36:6

## 2 Chronicles 36:7 (id: 166265)

**What did Nebuchadnezzar do to the house of Yahweh?**

He carried some of the objects in the house of Yahweh to Babylon, and put them in his palace.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 36:7

## 2 Chronicles 36:8 (id: 166266)

**Who became king after Jehoiakim?**

His son, Jehoiachin, became king after him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 36:8

## 2 Chronicles 36:9 (id: 166267)

**What kind of king was Jehoiachin?**

In his short reign, he did evil in the sight of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 36:9

## 2 Chronicles 36:10 (id: 166268)

**How did King Nebuchadnezzar treat this Jehoiachin?**

He brought Jehoiachin to Babylon along with more valuable things from the house of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 36:10

## 2 Chronicles 36:12 (id: 166269)

**How did Zedekiah respond to Yahweh?**

He did evil in the sight of Yahweh, and he did not humble himself before the prophet Jeremiah, who spoke from the mouth of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 36:12

## 2 Chronicles 36:13 (id: 166270)

**How did Zedekiah rebel against King Nebuchadnezzar?**

He hardened his heart against Yahweh and turned away from King Nebuchadnezzar.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 36:13

## 2 Chronicles 36:15–16 (id: 166271)

**How did the people respond to the compassion that Yahweh continued to show them?**

They mocked God’s messengers, despised his words, and scoffed at his prophets.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 36:15–2CH 36:16

## 2 Chronicles 36:17 (id: 166272)

**How did God deal with the mockers?**

He had the young men killed by the king of the Chaldeans, and all the others were given over to the king.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 36:17

## 2 Chronicles 36:18–19 (id: 166273)

**What did the king of the Babylonians do to Jerusalem and what did he take to Babylon?**

He destroyed the house of God, the wall of Jerusalem, all its palaces, and the beautiful things in it. Then he took all the furnishings and treasures to Babylon.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 36:18–2CH 36:19

## 2 Chronicles 36:20–21 (id: 166274)

**What happened to those that escaped the killing?**

They became servants for the king and his sons, which fulfilled Yahweh’s words to Jeremiah.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 36:20–2CH 36:21

## 2 Chronicles 36:22–23 (id: 166275)

**What did Cyrus, king of Persia, proclaim and put in writing?**

He said Yahweh had commanded him to build a house of God in Jerusalem and that God would be with them when they go up to the land.

* **Associated Passages:** 2CH 36:22–2CH 36:23

