# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Job 1:1 (id: 173209)

**How is Job’s character described?**

He was blameless and righteous and honored God and turned from evil.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 1:1

## Job 1:5 (id: 173210)

**After Job’s sons held feasts with their brothers and sisters in their houses, what would Job do?**

Job would consecrate them to God, offer burnt offerings, and pray for them.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 1:5

## Job 1:8 (id: 173211)

**Why did Yahweh say Satan should consider Job?**

There was no one like Job on the earth, a blameless and upright man, one who feared God and turned away from evil.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 1:8

## Job 1:10 (id: 173212)

**How did Satan say Yahweh had protected Job?**

He made a hedge around Job, around his house, and around all that he had on every side.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 1:10

## Job 1:11 (id: 173213)

**What did Satan think would cause Job to renounce God?**

He said to Job would renounce God if God attacked all Job’s possessions.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 1:11

## Job 1:12 (id: 173214)

**What did Yahweh give Satan permission to do?**

He gave Satan permission to take everything from Job, but not to lay a hand on his person.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 1:12

## Job 1:14–15 (id: 173215)

**What did the messenger tell Job the Sabeans had done to him?**

They killed all Job’s servants in the field and took away all the oxen and donkeys.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 1:14–JOB 1:15

## Job 1:16 (id: 173216)

**What did the second messenger tell Job had happened to his sheep?**

The fire of God fell from the heavens and burned them up along with the servants.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 1:16

## Job 1:17 (id: 173217)

**What did the third messenger tell Job had happened to his camels?**

Three groups of robbers came and attacked them. They stole all the camels and killed all the men that were caring for them.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 1:17

## Job 1:18–19 (id: 173218)

**What news did the fourth messenger bring to Job?**

Job’s sons and daughters were feasting in their brother’s home when a great wind came and struck the house, which collapsed on them and killed them.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 1:18–JOB 1:19

## Job 1:20 (id: 173219)

**What did Job do after he got all these messages?**

Job tore his robe, shaved his head, lay facedown on the ground, and worshiped God.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 1:20

## Job 1:21 (id: 173220)

**What did Job say about his condition after these events?**

He said he came naked from his mother’s womb, and he would return naked.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 1:21

## Job 1:21 (#2) (id: 173221)

**What did Job say that Yahweh had done to him?**

Yahweh gave, and Yahweh has taken away.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 1:21

## Job 1:22 (id: 173222)

**How did Job show that he was not a foolish man?**

Job did not sin, nor did he foolishly accuse God.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 1:22

## Job 2:1 (id: 173223)

**Who came with the sons of God when they presented themselves before Yahweh?**

Satan also came and presented himself.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 2:1

## Job 2:2 (id: 173224)

**What did Satan tell Yahweh that he had been doing?**

He said he was going to and fro on the earth, and walking back and forth on it.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 2:2

## Job 2:3 (id: 173225)

**How did Yahweh say that Job continued to do after Satan’s attacks?**

Job held fast to his integrity.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 2:3

## Job 2:5 (id: 173226)

**What does Satan want to do to Job now so that Job will curse God?**

Satan wants to touch Job’s bones and his body to hurt him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 2:5

## Job 2:7 (id: 173227)

**How did Satan afflict Job’s body?**

He afflicted Job with severe boils from the sole of his foot to the top of his head.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 2:7

## Job 2:8 (id: 173228)

**What did Job do to deal with the pain of his affliction?**

He took a potshard and scraped himself as he sat in ashes.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 2:8

## Job 2:9 (id: 173229)

**What did Job’s wife want him to do?**

Job’s wife wanted him to curse God and die.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 2:9

## Job 2:10 (id: 173230)

**What accusation did Job make to his wife?**

He accused her of thinking they should receive good at the hand of God but not evil.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 2:10

## Job 2:11 (id: 173231)

**What did Job’s three friends do when they heard what happened to Job?**

They came to mourn with him and comfort him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 2:11

## Job 2:12–13 (id: 173232)

**How did the three friends of Job show their grief when they saw him?**

They raised their voices and wept, tore their robes, threw dust on their heads, and sat on the ground in silence for seven days and nights.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 2:12–JOB 2:13

## Job 3:1–3 (id: 173233)

**What did Job say about the day he was born?**

He cursed the day he was born and asked that it would perish.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 3:1–JOB 3:3

## Job 3:5 (id: 173234)

**What does Job want to claim the day he was born?**

He wants that day to be claimed by darkness and the shadow of death.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 3:5

## Job 3:6 (id: 173235)

**What does Job want to seize the night he was conceived?**

Job wants that night to be seized by gloom.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 3:6

## Job 3:11 (id: 173236)

**What did Job wish had happened when he came out of the womb?**

He wishes he had died at birth.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 3:11

## Job 3:13–14 (id: 173237)

**What does Job say he would be doing now if he had died at birth?**

He would be sleeping and at rest with kings and counselors of the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 3:13–JOB 3:14

## Job 3:18–19 (id: 173238)

**From what are prisoners and servants released in death?**

The prisoner is released from the voice of the slave driver, and the servant is free from his master.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 3:18–JOB 3:19

## Job 3:21 (id: 173239)

**To whom does Job say that death will not come?**

It does not come to the one who longs for death and who searches for it more than those who search for hidden treasure.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 3:21

## Job 3:24 (id: 173240)

**How does Job describe his groaning?**

His groaning flows out like water.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 3:24

## Job 3:26 (id: 173241)

**What are the things that troubles have replaced in Job's life?**

He cannot be at ease or quiet and has no rest.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 3:26

## Job 4:3 (id: 173242)

**What good things does Eliphaz say Job has done for others?**

Job had instructed many and strengthened weak hands.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 4:3

## Job 4:6 (id: 173243)

**What does Eliphaz say is Job’s confidence and hope in time of trouble?**

Job’s fear of God is his confidence, and the integrity of his ways is his hope.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 4:6

## Job 4:8–9 (id: 173244)

**Who perishes by the breath of God and his anger?**

Those who plow misery and sow trouble perish and cease to exist.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 4:8–JOB 4:9

## Job 4:10 (id: 173245)

**What does Eliphaz says is broken?**

The teeth of young lions are broken.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 4:10

## Job 4:12–13 (id: 173246)

**How did Eliphaz secretly receive a certain message?**

He heard a whisper in his ear and saw visions in the night.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 4:12–JOB 4:13

## Job 4:14 (id: 173247)

**What came upon Eliphaz when he received the message?**

Fear and trembling came on him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 4:14

## Job 4:17 (id: 173248)

**What did the voice ask about mortal men?**

It asked if a mortal man can be more righteous than God, more pure than his Maker?

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 4:17

## Job 4:19 (id: 173249)

**How does Eliphaz describe mortal men?**

They live in houses of clay with their foundation in the dust, and they are crushed sooner than a moth.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 4:19

## Job 5:2 (id: 173250)

**What does Eliphaz say will happen to a foolish and simple man?**

Indignation kills the foolish man, and resentment kills the simple one.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 5:2

## Job 5:4 (id: 173251)

**What happens to the children of the foolish person in the city gate?**

They are unsafe, they are crushed in the gate and are not rescued.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 5:4

## Job 5:7 (id: 173252)

**From where does trouble really come?**

All his life, man makes his own trouble.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 5:7

## Job 5:10 (id: 173253)

**What does God give to the earth and the fields?**

He gives rain on the earth and sends water on the fields.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 5:10

## Job 5:12 (id: 173254)

**What does God do the schemes of crafty people?**

He frustrates their schemes so that their hands cannot carry out their plots.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 5:12

## Job 5:15 (id: 173255)

**From what does God save the needy and poor person?**

He saves the poor person from the threats and accusations of the mighty and saves the needy person from harm by the mighty people.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 5:15

## Job 5:18 (id: 173256)

**Why is the man happy whom God corrects and chastens?**

He is happy because the wounds, God binds up wounds, and his hands heal.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 5:18

## Job 5:22 (id: 173257)

**At what will the man whom God corrects laugh?**

He will laugh at destruction and famine.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 5:22

## Job 5:24 (id: 173258)

**What will the man whom God corrects find when he visits his sheepfold?**

He will find that nothing will be missing.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 5:24

## Job 5:26 (id: 173259)

**How long will the man whom God corrects live?**

He will come to his grave at a full age.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 5:26

## Job 6:2–3 (id: 173260)

**How does Job describe his anguish and his calamity?**

If his anguish and calamity were weighed, they would be heavier than the sand of the seas.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 6:2–JOB 6:3

## Job 6:4 (id: 173261)

**What has the Almighty done to Job with his arrows?**

His arrows are in Job, and Job’s spirit drinks up the poison.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 6:4

## Job 6:6 (id: 173262)

**What food does Job say has no taste?**

He says the white of an egg does not have any taste.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 6:6

## Job 6:8–9 (id: 173263)

**What one request does Job long for God to grant him?**

He wants God to crush him and cut him loose from his life.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 6:8–JOB 6:9

## Job 6:10 (id: 173264)

**What is Job’s consolation?**

His consolation is that he has not have denied the words of the Holy One.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 6:10

## Job 6:13 (id: 173265)

**What has been taken away from Job?**

Initiative has been taken away from him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 6:13

## Job 6:14 (id: 173266)

**To whom should a friend show faithfulness?**

A friend should show faithfulness to the despairing person.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 6:14

## Job 6:15–17 (id: 173267)

**How does Job compare his brothers to a desert streambed?**

They have dealt treacherously like a wadi: they disappear in the dry season.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 6:15–JOB 6:17

## Job 6:18–20 (id: 173268)

**What happened to the caravans when they looked for water in these streams?**

They wandered into barren land and then perished. They were disappointed and deceived.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 6:18–JOB 6:20

## Job 6:21 (id: 173269)

**Why were Job’s friends nothing to him?**

They saw his dreadful situation and were afraid, so they did not help him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 6:21

## Job 6:24 (id: 173270)

**What does Job say he will do if his friends would teach him?**

He will be silent.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 6:24

## Job 6:26 (id: 173271)

**What does Job say his friends plan to do with his words?**

They plan to correct his words and ignore what he has said.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 6:26

## Job 6:29 (id: 173272)

**Why does Job say his friends should relent in their attacks on him?**

Job’s cause is just.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 6:29

## Job 7:2–3 (id: 173273)

**To what does Job compare his months of misery and trouble\-filled nights?**

He compares them to a slave desiring relief from heat, or a hired man looking for his wages.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 7:2–JOB 7:3

## Job 7:5 (id: 173274)

**What covers Job’s flesh?**

Worms and clods of dust, open sores and infection cover his flesh.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 7:5

## Job 7:6 (id: 173275)

**What image does Job use to describe the speed of his days?**

His days pass more swiftly than a weaver’s shuttle.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 7:6

## Job 7:9 (id: 173276)

**To what does Job compare the man who goes down to Sheol?**

He is like a cloud that is consumed and vanishes away.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 7:9

## Job 7:11 (id: 173277)

**In what way will Job speak and complain?**

He will speak in the anguish of his spirit and complain in the bitterness of his soul.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 7:11

## Job 7:14 (id: 173278)

**What does God do to Job when Job goes to bed?**

God scares him with dreams and terrifies him through visions.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 7:14

## Job 7:16 (id: 173279)

**Why did Job want God to leave him alone?**

Job said his days are useless.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 7:16

## Job 7:19 (id: 173280)

**What does Job ask God to let him alone long enough to do?**

He asks to be left alone long enough to swallow his own saliva.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 7:19

## Job 7:21 (id: 173281)

**What does Job think God will not do?**

Job thinks God will not pardon his transgression and take away his iniquity.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 7:21

## Job 8:2 (id: 173282)

**To what did Bildad compare the words of Job’s mouth?**

He compared them to a mighty wind.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 8:2

## Job 8:4 (id: 173283)

**How did Bildad say he knew that Job’s children sinned?**

He said he knew this because God had punished them for their sins.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 8:4

## Job 8:6 (id: 173284)

**How does Bildad say that God would bless Job if Job were pure and upright?**

God would reward Job by restoring his former home and wealth.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 8:6

## Job 8:9 (id: 173285)

**To what does Bildad compare our days on earth?**

He says they are a shadow.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 8:9

## Job 8:11 (id: 173286)

**What do papyrus and reeds require in order to grow?**

Papyrus requires a marsh, and reeds need water to grow.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 8:11

## Job 8:14 (id: 173287)

**To what does Bildad compare the trust of godless men?**

Their trust is as fragile as a spider’s web.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 8:14

## Job 8:17 (id: 173288)

**What do the roots do that represent a person that forgets God?**

The roots are wrapped around heaps of stone and look for good places among the rocks.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 8:17

## Job 8:20 (id: 173289)

**How does God treat the innocent man and the evildoers differently?**

He will not cast away an innocent man, but will not take the hand of evildoers.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 8:20

## Job 8:21 (id: 173290)

**With what will God fill the mouth and lips of the innocent man?**

He will fill his mouth with laughter and his lips with shouting.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 8:21

## Job 9:3 (id: 173291)

**What would happen is a man tried to argue with God?**

The man could not answer God once in a thousand times.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 9:3

## Job 9:5 (id: 173292)

**What does God do to the mountains when he is angry?**

He removes the mountains without warning and overturns them.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 9:5

## Job 9:8 (id: 173293)

**What does God trample down?**

He tramples down and subdues the waves of the sea.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 9:8

## Job 9:11 (id: 173294)

**Does Job see God when he passes by?**

God goes by him and Job does not see or perceive him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 9:11

## Job 9:15 (id: 173295)

**Even if Job were righteous, how would he need to address God?**

Job could not answer him, but could only plead for mercy.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 9:15

## Job 9:17 (id: 173296)

**Why does Job believe God has multiple his wounds?**

Job believed God multiplied his wounds without cause.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 9:17

## Job 9:20 (id: 173297)

**Is it possible for Job to be righteous and perfect?**

No, even then, his mouth would condemn him and prove him guilty.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 9:20

## Job 9:22 (id: 173298)

**Does Job think God treats righteous and wicked people differently?**

He says God destroys both perfect people and wicked people together.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 9:22

## Job 9:25–26 (id: 173299)

**To what three things does Job compare the speed of his days?**

They are swifter than a running messenger, they are as fast as reed boats, and as fast as the swooping eagle.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 9:25–JOB 9:26

## Job 9:27–29 (id: 173300)

**Why did Job say it would be in vain to forget about his complaints?**

God would not consider him innocent, but Job would be condemned.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 9:27–JOB 9:29

## Job 9:33 (id: 173301)

**What does Job say that no judge would be able to do?**

No judge would lay his hand on both Job and God.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 9:33

## Job 9:34 (id: 173302)

**What does Job say no other judge could do?**

There is no other judge who can take God’s rod from Job, or keep God’s terror from frightening Job.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 9:34

## Job 10:2 (id: 173303)

**Why does Job want God to show him instead of merely condemning him?**

He wants God to show Job why he accuses him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 10:2

## Job 10:4 (id: 173304)

**What kind of eyes does Job ask God if he has?**

Job asks him if he has eyes of flesh and sees like a man sees.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 10:4

## Job 10:6 (id: 173305)

**For what does Job say that God seeks and searches?**

God inquires after Job’s iniquity and searches after his sin.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 10:6

## Job 10:8 (id: 173306)

**What had God’s hands done for Job?**

They had framed and fashioned Job, yet they are destroying him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 10:8

## Job 10:11 (id: 173307)

**With what did God clothe Job?**

He clothed him with skin and flesh.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 10:11

## Job 10:12 (id: 173308)

**What has God granted to Job?**

God granted him life and covenant faithfulness.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 10:12

## Job 10:14 (id: 173309)

**What would God do if Job sinned?**

God will notice his sin, and not acquit him of his iniquity.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 10:14

## Job 10:16 (id: 173310)

**What would God do to Job if Job’s head were lifted up?**

God would hunt him down like a lion.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 10:16

## Job 10:17 (id: 173311)

**Who would God bring against Job?**

God would bring new witnesses against him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 10:17

## Job 10:18 (id: 173312)

**What does Job wish had happened to him?**

He wishes he had died and that no eye had ever seen him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 10:18

## Job 10:21 (id: 173313)

**Where is Job going, from which he will not return?**

He is going to the land of darkness.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 10:21

## Job 11:3 (id: 173314)

**What did Zophar think Job had done to their teaching?**

He thought Job had mocked his friends' teaching.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 11:3

## Job 11:6 (id: 173315)

**What does Zophar say that God has demanded from Job?**

He said God has demanded less from Job than his iniquity deserved.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 11:6

## Job 11:7–9 (id: 173316)

**Does Zophar think that Job could possibly understand God?**

Zophar thinks that it is impossible because God is as high as the heavens, deeper than Sheol, longer than the earth, and wider than the sea.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 11:7–JOB 11:9

## Job 11:10–11 (id: 173317)

**Does Zophar think that it is possible for anyone to stop God?**

It is impossible to stop God because he knows false people and punishes iniquity.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 11:10–JOB 11:11

## Job 11:12 (id: 173318)

**When does Zophar say foolish people will have understanding?**

They will have understanding when the colt of a wild donkey will be born to a man, meaning never!

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 11:12

## Job 11:16 (id: 173319)

**What does Zophar say would happen to Job’s misery if he truly puts away his iniquity?**

Job would forget his misery and remember it only like waters that have flowed away.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 11:16

## Job 11:18 (id: 173320)

**Why would Job be secure if he put away his iniquity?**

He would be secure because there would be hope.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 11:18

## Job 11:20 (id: 173321)

**What does Zophar say will be the hope of wicked people?**

He says that their hope will be an expiration of breath, meaning that they can only hope to die.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 11:20

## Job 12:3 (id: 173322)

**How does Job compare himself to his friends?**

He says he also has understanding and is not inferior to them.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 12:3

## Job 12:4 (id: 173323)

**What do Job’s neighbors think of him now?**

They laugh at him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 12:4

## Job 12:7–8 (id: 173324)

**Who does Job think could teach his friends?**

The beasts, the birds, the earth, and the fish of the sea could teach his friends.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 12:7–JOB 12:8

## Job 12:9 (id: 173325)

**What do all of the animals know?**

They know that the hand of Yayweh has given them life.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 12:9

## Job 12:12 (id: 173326)

**What does Job say about aged men and understanding?**

Wisdom and understanding come as people grow old.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 12:12

## Job 12:15 (id: 173327)

**What does God do with the waters?**

He with holds them and they dry up, and he sends them out and they overwhelm the land.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 12:15

## Job 12:18 (id: 173328)

**What does God take from kings?**

He takes off the chain of authority from them.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 12:18

## Job 12:20 (id: 173329)

**What does Job say about what God does to the trustworthy and the elders?**

He can remove the speech of the trustworthy and take away the understanding of elders.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 12:20

## Job 12:23 (id: 173330)

**What does Job say about God does to nations?**

He makes them strong or destroys them, and enlarges them or leads them along as prisoners.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 12:23

## Job 12:24 (id: 173331)

**What happens to the leaders of the people of the earth when God takes away their understanding?**

He causes them them to wander in a wilderness where there is no path.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 12:24

## Job 13:2 (id: 173332)

**How does Job say his knowledge compares to that of his friends?**

Job says that he knows the same as they know, and he is not inferior to them.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 13:2

## Job 13:3 (id: 173333)

**Who would Job like to talk to instead of his friends and why?**

He would rather speak to the Almighty because Job wants to reason with God.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 13:3

## Job 13:5 (id: 173334)

**What does Job say about wanting his friends to be silent?**

He says that the silence of his friends would be wisdom.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 13:5

## Job 13:6 (id: 173335)

**What does Job want his friends to hear?**

He wants them to listen to his reasoning and the pleading of his lips.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 13:6

## Job 13:10 (id: 173336)

**Would God approve if Job’s friends were showing favoritism?**

No, he would strongly reprove them if they showed favoritism.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 13:10

## Job 13:12 (id: 173337)

**What does Job think about his friends’ sayings and defenses?**

He says their sayings are proverbs made of ashes, and their defenses are made of clay.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 13:12

## Job 13:13 (id: 173338)

**What does Job ask his friends to do so that he may speak?**

Job asks them to hold their peace and let him speak.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 13:13

## Job 13:16 (id: 173339)

**Why does Job think that he would be acquitted?**

He does not come before God like a godless man.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 13:16

## Job 13:18 (id: 173340)

**What has Job set in order?**

He has set his defense in order.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 13:18

## Job 13:21 (id: 173341)

**What does Job want God to withdraw from him?**

Job wants God to withdraw his oppressive hand from Job and stop terrifying him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 13:21

## Job 13:24 (id: 173342)

**Who does God treat Job like?**

He treats Job like his enemy.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 13:24

## Job 13:28 (id: 173343)

**What useless things does Job say he is like?**

He is like a rotten thing that wastes away, like a garment that moths have eaten.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 13:28

## Job 14:2 (id: 173344)

**How does Job say man is like a flower?**

Man sprouts from the ground like a flower, and then withers.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 14:2

## Job 14:5 (id: 173345)

**Who decides the lifespan of man?**

God has determined his days and the number of his months.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 14:5

## Job 14:7 (id: 173346)

**What does Job say about a tree that has been cut down?**

There can be hope for a tree that has been cut down, for it can sprout again.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 14:7

## Job 14:12 (id: 173347)

**Does Job say a man can live again?**

He says that that people do not rise up again, and will not be roused out of their sleep.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 14:12

## Job 14:13 (id: 173348)

**Where does Job wish would God would hide him?**

Job wants God to hide him away in Sheol, away from troubles.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 14:13

## Job 14:17 (id: 173349)

**How would God treat Job’s transgression and iniquity if God’s wrath were finished?**

God would seal up Job’s transgression in a bag, and cover up Job’s iniquity.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 14:17

## Job 14:19 (id: 173350)

**What amazing thing can water do over time?**

Water can wear down stones.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 14:19

## Job 14:21 (id: 173351)

**What kinds of things does a dead man not know about his sons (his children)?**

If they achieve honor or become insignificant, he does not know it.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 14:21

## Job 15:2 (id: 173352)

**With what should a wise man not fill himself?**

He should not fill himself with the east wind.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 15:2

## Job 15:4 (id: 173353)

**How does Eliphaz think that Job’s statements dishonored God?**

He thinks Job destroys fear and diminishes devotion to God.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 15:4

## Job 15:9 (id: 173354)

**Does Eliphaz think that Job knows something that the other friends do not know?**

He does not think that Job knows what they do not know, or that he understands they do not understand.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 15:9

## Job 15:10 (id: 173355)

**Which people does Eliphaz say agree with Job’s friends?**

The gray\-headed and very aged men who are older than Job’s father are with Eliphaz and his friends.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 15:10

## Job 15:13 (id: 173356)

**What does Eliphaz think Job has done?**

He thinks Job has turned his spirit against God.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 15:13

## Job 15:15 (id: 173357)

**How does God view his holy ones and the heavens?**

He puts no trust even in his holy ones, and the heavens are not clean in his sight.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 15:15

## Job 15:17–18 (id: 173358)

**From whom did Eliphaz get the things he will announce to Job?**

The things he has seen are things that wise men passed down from their fathers, and things that ancestors did not hide.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 15:17–JOB 15:18

## Job 15:21 (id: 173359)

**When will the destroyer come upon the wicked man?**

The destroyer will come upon him while he is in his prosperity.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 15:21

## Job 15:22 (id: 173360)

**What waits for the wicked man?**

The sword waits for the wicked man.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 15:22

## Job 15:26 (id: 173361)

**With what does the wicked man run against God?**

He runs at God with a stiff neck and a thick shield.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 15:26

## Job 15:28 (id: 173362)

**What will happen to the cities and houses of the wicked man?**

They are ready to become heaps.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 15:28

## Job 15:30 (id: 173363)

**What will cause the wicked to go away?**

He will go away at the breath of God’s mouth.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 15:30

## Job 15:31 (id: 173364)

**What reward will the wicked man have for trusting in worthless things?**

Emptiness will be his reward.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 15:31

## Job 15:34 (id: 173365)

**What will happen to the company of godless people?**

It will be barren, and fire will consume their tents of bribery.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 15:34

## Job 16:2–3 (id: 173366)

**What did Job say about the comfort offered by his friends?**

Job said they were making him more miserable with their endless, useless words.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 16:2–JOB 16:3

## Job 16:6 (id: 173367)

**How does Job’s speaking affect his grief?**

If he speaks, his grief is not lessened, and if he keeps from speaking, he is not helped.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 16:6

## Job 16:10 (id: 173368)

**How are other people treating Job as God attacks him?**

They gape at Job with open mouth, hit him reproachfully on the cheek, and gathered together against him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 16:10

## Job 16:11 (id: 173369)

**To whom has God given Job?**

God handed him over to the ungodly and threw him into the hands of wicked people.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 16:11

## Job 16:13 (id: 173370)

**How has God injured Job?**

He has pierced Job’s kidneys and poured out his bile on the ground.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 16:13

## Job 16:15 (id: 173371)

**What has Job done to his skin to show his grief?**

He has sewn sackcloth on his skin.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 16:15

## Job 16:19 (id: 173372)

**Who is Job’s witness and able to vouch for Job?**

Job’s witness is in heaven, and the one who is for him is on high.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 16:19

## Job 16:20 (id: 173373)

**Who does Job turn to as his friends scoff at him?**

Job pours out his tears to God.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 16:20

## Job 17:2 (id: 173374)

**What must Job always see?**

He must always see the provocation of the mockers who are with him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 17:2

## Job 17:3 (id: 173375)

**What pledge does Job want God to make to Job?**

He wants God to pledge himself to be a guarantee for Job.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 17:3

## Job 17:5 (id: 173376)

**Whose evil deed will cause the eyes of his children to fail?**

The one who denounces his friends for a reward will cause the eyes of his children to fail.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 17:5

## Job 17:7 (id: 173377)

**What has happened to Job’s eye and his body because of sorrow?**

His eye is dim and all his body parts are as thin a shadow.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 17:7

## Job 17:10 (id: 173378)

**Does Job think that he can find a wise man among his friends?**

Job knows that he will not find a wise man among them.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 17:10

## Job 17:11 (id: 173379)

**Does Job have plans for the future?**

Job’s plans are over, as are the wishes of his heart.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 17:11

## Job 17:14 (id: 173380)

**What has become Job’s father, mother, and sister?**

The pit has become his father, and the worm is his mother and sister.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 17:14

## Job 18:3 (id: 173381)

**How did Bildad think Job viewed his friends?**

Bildad thought Job regarded them as beasts and thought they were stupid.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 18:3

## Job 18:5 (id: 173382)

**What will happen to the light of the wicked person?**

His light goes out; the flame of his fire will not shine.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 18:5

## Job 18:8 (id: 173383)

**What will throw the wicked man into a net?**

He will be thrown into a net by his own feet, and he will walk into a pitfall.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 18:8

## Job 18:9–10 (id: 173384)

**What will catch the wicked man?**

He will be caught by a trap, a snare, and a noose.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 18:9–JOB 18:10

## Job 18:12 (id: 173385)

**What will happen to the strength of the wicked man?**

His strength will turn into hunger.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 18:12

## Job 18:14 (id: 173386)

**Where will the wicked man no longer live?**

He will no longer live in his tent but will be unable to save himself.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 18:14

## Job 18:16 (id: 173387)

**What image does Bildad use to describe what will happen to the wicked man?**

He describes the wicked man as a tree whose roots will dry up beneath the ground, and whose branch will wither above.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 18:16

## Job 18:19 (id: 173388)

**Will the wicked man have any descendants?**

He will have no son or son’s son among his people, nor any remaining kinfolk where he had stayed.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 18:19

## Job 18:20 (id: 173389)

**How do the people respond to what happens to the wicked man?**

People will be shocked and horrified at what happens to the wicked man.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 18:20

## Job 19:2 (id: 173390)

**What does Job ask his friends to stop doing to him?**

Job asks his friends to stop hurting him and discouraging him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 19:2

## Job 19:3 (id: 173391)

**How many times have Job’s friends reproached him?**

They have reproached him ten times.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 19:3

## Job 19:4 (id: 173392)

**Whose concern should it be if Job had erred?**

Job says the error should be his own concern.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 19:4

## Job 19:6 (id: 173393)

**How does Job say God has treated him?**

Job says God has done wrong to Job and caught him in God’s net.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 19:6

## Job 19:7 (id: 173394)

**What happens when Job calls out for help because he has been wronged?**

He is not answered and there is no justice.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 19:7

## Job 19:11 (id: 173395)

**According to Job, how has God regarded Job?**

Job says God has regarded him as one of his enemies.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 19:11

## Job 19:13–14 (id: 173396)

**What has happened to all of Job’s family and friends?**

God has put his brothers far from him, his acquaintances are alienated, his kinsfolk fail him, and his close friends have forgotten him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 19:13–JOB 19:14

## Job 19:16 (id: 173397)

**How does Job’s servant respond to Job when he calls him?**

His servant does not respond when Job gives an order.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 19:16

## Job 19:19 (id: 173398)

**How have Job's former friends treated him?**

His former friends have turned against him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 19:19

## Job 19:20 (id: 173399)

**How does Job survive?**

He survives only with the skin of his teeth.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 19:20

## Job 19:23–24 (id: 173400)

**What does Job want to happen to his words?**

He wants them to be written down and inscribed in a book, or engraved with pen and lead in the rock forever.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 19:23–JOB 19:24

## Job 19:25 (id: 173401)

**What does Job say he knows?**

He knows that his Redeemer lives, and that at last his Redeemer will stand on the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 19:25

## Job 19:26 (id: 173402)

**What does Job say will happen when his body is destroyed?**

Job in his flesh will see God.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 19:26

## Job 19:29 (id: 173403)

**What does wrath bring?**

Wrath brings the punishment of the sword.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 19:29

## Job 20:1–3 (id: 173404)

**Why did Zophar answer Job quickly?**

He answered Job quickly he was troubled by what Job said. He hears Job’s rebuke and says it puts him to shame.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 20:1–JOB 20:3

## Job 20:5 (id: 173405)

**How long does the joy of a godless man last?**

The joy of the godless only lasts for a moment.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 20:5

## Job 20:7 (id: 173406)

**How will the wicked man perish?**

He will perish permanently, like garbage disappears.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 20:7

## Job 20:8 (id: 173407)

**How will the wicked man go away?**

He will fly away like a dream, and be chased away like a vision of the night.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 20:8

## Job 20:10 (id: 173408)

**What will the wicked man’s children do?**

His children will apologize to poor people.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 20:10

## Job 20:14 (id: 173409)

**What happens to wickedness inside the wicked man?**

It will cause the food in his intestines to turn bitter, and will becomes like the poison of asps inside him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 20:14

## Job 20:15 (id: 173410)

**What will happen to the riches that the wicked man swallows down?**

He will vomit them up again.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 20:15

## Job 20:17 (id: 173411)

**What will the wicked man not live to enjoy?**

He will not live to enjoy the blessings that flow from God.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 20:17

## Job 20:19 (id: 173412)

**Why will the wicked man not rejoice?**

He has oppressed and neglected the poor people, and has violently taken away houses that he did not build.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 20:19

## Job 20:21 (id: 173413)

**Why will the prosperity of the wicked man not be permanent?**

It will not be permanent because there is nothing left that he did not devour.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 20:21

## Job 20:23 (id: 173414)

**What will God do to the wicked man who is about to fill his belly?**

God will rain down the fierceness of his wrath on him while he is eating.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 20:23

## Job 20:24 (id: 173415)

**What will happen when the wicked man flees from the iron weapon?**

A bow of bronze will shoot him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 20:24

## Job 20:27 (id: 173416)

**What will the heavens and the earth do against the wicked man?**

The heavens will reveal his iniquity and the earth will be a witness against him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 20:27

## Job 20:28 (id: 173417)

**What will happen to the wicked man on the day of God’s wrath?**

The wealth of his house will vanish and his goods will flow away.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 20:28

## Job 21:3 (id: 173418)

**What does Job think his friends will do after he has spoken?**

He thinks they will continue to mock him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 21:3

## Job 21:5 (id: 173419)

**How will people respond when they look at Job?**

They will be astonished and lay their hands upon their mouths.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 21:5

## Job 21:6 (id: 173420)

**What happens to Job when he thinks about his sufferings?**

He is terrified; his flesh trembles.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 21:6

## Job 21:7 (id: 173421)

**What does Job ask about wicked people?**

Job asks why do they continue to live, become old, and grow mighty in power?

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 21:7

## Job 21:10 (id: 173422)

**What happens to the bull and the cow of the wicked?**

The bull doesn’t fail to breed and the cow doesn’t lose her calf prematurely.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 21:10

## Job 21:14 (id: 173423)

**What do the wicked say to God?**

They tell God to depart from them, for they do not wish any knowledge of his ways.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 21:14

## Job 21:16 (id: 173424)

**How does Job respond to the advice of wicked people?**

He wants nothing to do with their advice.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 21:16

## Job 21:19 (id: 173425)

**Who does Job want to pay for the guilt of the wicked person?**

Job wants the wicked person to pay for his guilt, and not his children, so that he would know his guilt.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 21:19

## Job 21:22 (id: 173426)

**Can anyone teach God knowledge?**

No, for he judges even those who are high.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 21:22

## Job 21:26 (id: 173427)

**What happens to both the man who dies in full strength and the one who dies in bitterness of soul?**

They both lie down alike in the dust and the worms cover them both.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 21:26

## Job 21:27 (id: 173428)

**What does Job know about his friends’ thoughts and ways?**

He knows their thoughts and the ways in which they wrong him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 21:27

## Job 21:30 (id: 173429)

**What have traveling people seen happen to the wicked man?**

They have seen that the wicked man is kept from the day of calamity, and that he is led away from the day of wrath.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 21:30

## Job 21:32 (id: 173430)

**What will men do for the tomb of the wicked man?**

Men will keep watch over his tomb.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 21:32

## Job 21:34 (id: 173431)

**With what does Job say Zophar was trying to comfort him?**

Job says Zophar was trying to comfort him with things that are not true.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 21:34

## Job 22:3 (id: 173432)

**What does Eliphaz ask Job if his righteousness can do for the Almighty?**

He asks if it brings any pleasure to the Almighty if Job is righteous.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 22:3

## Job 22:4 (id: 173433)

**How does Eliphaz mock Job’s reverence for God?**

He mockingly says that God would not punish Job if Job had truly been righteous.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 22:4

## Job 22:6 (id: 173434)

**What does Eliphaz accuse Job of doing to the naked?**

He says that Job has stripped the naked of their clothing.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 22:6

## Job 22:9 (id: 173435)

**What does Eliphaz accuse Job of doing to widows?**

He claims Job has sent widows away empty.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 22:9

## Job 22:11 (id: 173436)

**What does Eliphaz say the darkness has done to Job?**

He says Job is in darkness so that he does not know what to do.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 22:11

## Job 22:14 (id: 173437)

**What does Eliphaz claim Job says about God not seeing people?**

Job says, “Thick clouds are a covering to God, so that he does not see people.”

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 22:14

## Job 22:16 (id: 173438)

**What happens to the foundations of wicked men?**

The wicked men’s foundations have washed away, as if by a flooding river.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 22:16

## Job 22:19 (id: 173439)

**How do the righteous act when they see the fate of the wicked?**

The righteous see their fate and are glad.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 22:19

## Job 22:21 (id: 173440)

**What will happen if Job is at peace with God?**

If Job is at peace with God, good will come to him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 22:21

## Job 22:23 (id: 173441)

**What does Eliphaz say will happen if Job returns to the Almighty?**

If Job returns to the Almighty, he will be built up.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 22:23

## Job 22:26 (id: 173442)

**What will happen when Job takes pleasure in the Almighty?**

When Job takes pleasure in the Almighty, he will lift up his face to God.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 22:26

## Job 22:29 (id: 173443)

**What does God do for the humble?**

God saves those who are humble.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 22:29

## Job 23:2 (id: 173444)

**Is Job finished protesting?**

No. Job said that there is much more he could protest about.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 23:2

## Job 23:4 (id: 173445)

**What would Job do before God if he could find him?**

He would lay his case in order before God and fill his mouth with arguments.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 23:4

## Job 23:6 (id: 173446)

**Does Job think God would argue against him in the greatness of God’s power if he could stand before him?**

No, he thinks God would listen to him fairly.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 23:6

## Job 23:9 (id: 173447)

**What does Job say God is doing in the south?**

Job says in the south, God hides himself so that no one can see what he does there.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 23:9

## Job 23:10 (id: 173448)

**What result does Job expect from God’s testing him?**

When God has tested Job, he will come out like gold.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 23:10

## Job 23:12 (id: 173449)

**What has Job done with the words of God’s mouth?**

Job has treasured up in his heart the words of God’s mouth.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 23:12

## Job 23:14 (id: 173450)

**What will God carry out for Job?**

God will carry out his decrees for Job.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 23:14

## Job 23:15 (id: 173451)

**How does Job feel when he thinks about God?**

When Job thinks about him, he is afraid of him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 23:15

## Job 23:17 (id: 173452)

**What covers Job’s face?**

The thick darkness covers Job’s face.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 23:17

## Job 24:1 (id: 173453)

**What times does Job think are not set by the Almighty?**

Job asks why times for judging the wicked are not set by the Almighty.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 24:1

## Job 24:3 (id: 173454)

**What do the wicked do to the donkey of the fatherless?**

They drive away the donkey of the fatherless.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 24:3

## Job 24:5 (id: 173455)

**What do the poor hope the Arabah will provide?**

They hope the Arabah will provide them food for their children.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 24:5

## Job 24:7 (id: 173456)

**What do the poor lack in the cold?**

They have no covering in the cold.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 24:7

## Job 24:8 (id: 173457)

**What do the poor embrace for lack of shelter?**

They embrace a rock for lack of shelter.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 24:8

## Job 24:10 (id: 173458)

**What do the poor do for others even though they go hungry?**

Even though they go hungry, they carry others’ sheaves of grain.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 24:10

## Job 24:11 (id: 173459)

**What do the poor do for others even though they suffer thirst?**

They tread the wicked men’s winepresses, but they suffer thirst.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 24:11

## Job 24:14 (id: 173460)

**What is the murderer like in the night?**

In the night, the muderer is like a thief.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 24:14

## Job 24:16 (id: 173461)

**Why do the wicked shut themselves up in daytime?**

The wicked do not care for the light.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 24:16

## Job 24:17 (id: 173462)

**With what terrors are the wicked comfortable?**

They are comfortable with the terrors of the thick darkness.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 24:17

## Job 24:19 (id: 173463)

**Who does Sheol consume?**

Sheol consumes those who have sinned.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 24:19

## Job 24:21 (id: 173464)

**Who does the wicked one devour?**

The wicked one devours the barren women who have not born children.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 24:21

## Job 24:22 (id: 173465)

**Who does God drag away?**

God drags away the mighty by his power.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 24:22

## Job 24:24 (id: 173466)

**What will happen to the mighty in a little while?**

In only a little while, the mighty will be gone.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 24:24

## Job 25:2 (id: 173467)

**Where does God make order?**

God makes order in his high places of heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 25:2

## Job 25:4 (id: 173468)

**Of whom does Bildad ask can they be clean and acceptable to God?**

He asks if one who is born of a woman can be clean and acceptable to God.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 25:4

## Job 25:6 (id: 173469)

**To what does Bildad compare a son of man?**

He says that a son of man is a grub.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 25:6

## Job 26:4 (id: 173470)

**Whose words does Job say Bildad is speaking?**

Job says Bildad is not speaking God's words, but his own.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 26:4

## Job 26:6 (id: 173471)

**What has no covering before God?**

Sheol itself has no covering against God.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 26:6

## Job 26:8 (id: 173472)

**Where does God bind up the waters?**

He binds up the waters in his thick clouds.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 26:8

## Job 26:9 (id: 173473)

**What does God spread on the face of the moon?**

He encloses the face of the moon and spreads his cloud on it.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 26:9

## Job 26:12 (id: 173474)

**What did God calm with his power?**

He calmed the sea with his power.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 26:12

## Job 26:13 (id: 173475)

**By what did God clear the heavens of storms?**

By his breath, he cleared the heavens of storms.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 26:13

## Job 26:14 (id: 173476)

**How much of God's ways are people able to see?**

People can see only the edges of God's ways.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 26:14

## Job 27:2 (id: 173477)

**What does Job say God has taken away from him?**

God has taken away his justice.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 27:2

## Job 27:4 (id: 173478)

**What does Job vow his lips will not speak?**

Job vows that surely his lips will not speak wickedness or deceit.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 27:4

## Job 27:6 (id: 173479)

**How long will Job’s thoughts not reproach him?**

His thoughts will not reproach him so long as he lives.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 27:6

## Job 27:8 (id: 173480)

**What does Job say God does when he cuts off a godless man’s life?**

When God cuts off his life, God will punish him for the wrong things that he has done.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 27:8

## Job 27:11 (id: 173481)

**What does Job say he will not conceal of the Almighty?**

Job said that he would not conceal the hand of the Almighty.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 27:11

## Job 27:14 (id: 173482)

**Of what will the wicked man’s offspring not have enough?**

His offspring will never have enough food.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 27:14

## Job 27:15 (id: 173483)

**What will the wicked man’s widow not do for him?**

His widow will make no lament for him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 27:15

## Job 27:17 (id: 173484)

**What will happen to the silver of the wicked man?**

The innocent will divide up his silver among themselves.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 27:17

## Job 27:19 (id: 173485)

**What does the wicked man see when he opens his eyes after he lies down rich?**

He opens his eyes, and everything is gone.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 27:19

## Job 27:21 (id: 173486)

**What does the east wind do as it carries the wicked man away?**

The east wind carries him away, and it sweeps him out of his place.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 27:21

## Job 27:22 (id: 173487)

**What does the wicked man try to do when the east wind does not stop?**

He tries to flee out of its power.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 27:22

## Job 28:2 (id: 173488)

**From where is copper smelted?**

Copper is smelted out of stone.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 28:2

## Job 28:3 (id: 173489)

**What does man search out to the farthest limit?**

Man searches out, to the farthest limit, the stones of gloom and thick darkness.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 28:3

## Job 28:4 (id: 173490)

**Where does man break open a shaft?**

He breaks open a shaft away from where people live.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 28:4

## Job 28:6 (id: 173491)

**What is contained in the dust of the earth?**

The earth’s dust contains gold.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 28:6

## Job 28:8 (id: 173492)

**What has not walked through the path of man’s shaft?**

The proud animals have not walked such a path, nor has the fierce lion passed there.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 28:8

## Job 28:10 (id: 173493)

**What does man see in the channels he cuts among the rocks?**

His eye sees every valuable thing there.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 28:10

## Job 28:13 (id: 173494)

**Where are wisdom and understanding not found?**

Both of these are not found in the land of the living.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 28:13

## Job 28:17 (id: 173495)

**What cannot equal the worth of wisdom and understanding?**

Gold and crystal cannot equal both of these in worth.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 28:17

## Job 28:18 (id: 173496)

**The price of wisdom is more than what jewel?**

The price of wisdom is more than rubies.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 28:18

## Job 28:21 (id: 173497)

**From whose eyes is wisdom hidden?**

Wisdom is hidden from the eyes of all living things.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 28:21

## Job 28:23 (id: 173498)

**Who knows wisdom’s place?**

God understands the way to wisdom and he knows its place.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 28:23

## Job 28:25 (id: 173499)

**What did God parcel out by measure?**

He parceled out the waters by measure.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 28:25

## Job 28:26 (id: 173500)

**For what did God make a decree?**

He made a decree for the rain.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 28:26

## Job 28:28 (id: 173501)

**What did God tell people is wisdom?**

To people, God said, “See, the fear of the Lord—that is wisdom.”

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 28:28

## Job 29:2 (id: 173502)

**Does Job recall a time when God cared for him?**

Job remembers that in the past months God had cared for him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 29:2

## Job 29:4 (id: 173503)

**What was on Job’s tent in the ripeness of his days?**

Job remembers the ripeness of his days, when the friendship of God was on his tent.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 29:4

## Job 29:6 (id: 173504)

**What had the rock poured out for Job in the past?**

When the almighty was with Job, the rock poured out for him streams of oil.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 29:6

## Job 29:8 (id: 173505)

**How did the young men show respect for Job in the city square?**

They saw Job and kept their distance from him in respect.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 29:8

## Job 29:9 (id: 173506)

**What did the princes do in the past when Job came?**

They used to refrain from talking when he came.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 29:9

## Job 29:10 (id: 173507)

**What happened to the tongue of the noblemen when Job came?**

Their tongue clung to the roof of their mouths.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 29:10

## Job 29:11 (id: 173508)

**What would the noblemen do after their eyes saw Job?**

They would then give witness to Job and approve of him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 29:11

## Job 29:13 (id: 173509)

**What did Job cause the widow’s heart to do?**

He caused her heart to be glad.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 29:13

## Job 29:16 (id: 173510)

**What had Job done even for the person he did not know?**

He would examine the case even of one whom he did not know.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 29:16

## Job 29:17 (id: 173511)

**Who would Job pluck from the teeth of the unrighteous?**

He plucked the victim out from between the teeth of the unrighteous.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 29:17

## Job 29:20 (id: 173512)

**What does Job say is always new in his hand?**

The bow of his strength is always new in his hand.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 29:20

## Job 29:23 (id: 173513)

**What did men wait to drink in like rain from Job?**

They opened their mouth wide to drink in his words as they would for the latter rain.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 29:23

## Job 29:25 (id: 173514)

**To what does Job compare himself at a funeral?**

He say that he is like one who comforts mourners at a funeral.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 29:25

## Job 30:1 (id: 173515)

**Who has nothing but mockery for Job?**

Those who are younger than Job have nothing but mockery for him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 30:1

## Job 30:3 (id: 173516)

**What made the young men’s fathers thin?**

They were thin from poverty and hunger.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 30:3

## Job 30:5 (id: 173517)

**From where were the young men’s fathers driven out?**

Their fathers were driven out from among people.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 30:5

## Job 30:8 (id: 173518)

**Of whom does Job say the young men’s fathers are descendants.**

Job says that they were descendants of fools, indeed, of worthless men.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 30:8

## Job 30:9 (id: 173519)

**What had Job become for the sons of the worthless men?**

Job had become their subject for a song of mockery.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 30:9

## Job 30:11 (id: 173520)

**What do the people now cast away in front of Job?**

These people cast away self\-restraint in front of him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 30:11

## Job 30:13 (id: 173521)

**Why are the men able to advance his calamity for Job?**

They advance his calamity because there is no one to hold them back.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 30:13

## Job 30:15 (id: 173522)

**What does Job say is driven away by the wind?**

His dignity is driven away as if by the wind.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 30:15

## Job 30:16 (id: 173523)

**What has laid hold of Job as his life is pouring out within him?**

Many days of suffering have laid hold on him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 30:16

## Job 30:18 (id: 173524)

**What does Job say has changed his clothing?**

Skin disease has changed his skin, referred to as clothing.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 30:18

## Job 30:21 (id: 173525)

**How does Job say God has changed?**

God has changed and become cruel to him; with the power of his hand God persecutes him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 30:21

## Job 30:23 (id: 173526)

**What does Job know is destined for all living things?**

He knows that God will bring him to death, to the house destined for all living things.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 30:23

## Job 30:26 (id: 173527)

**What came when Job waited for light?**

When he waited for light, darkness came instead.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 30:26

## Job 30:28 (id: 173528)

**Where did Job stand to call for help?**

He stood up in the assembly and cried for help.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 30:28

## Job 30:31 (id: 173529)

**For what kind of music does Job say his harp is tuned?**

Job says that his harp is tuned for songs of mourning.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 30:31

## Job 31:1 (id: 173530)

**What desire does Job say is subdued by a covenant with his eyes?**

Job has made a covenant with his eyes to not look with desire on a virgin.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:1

## Job 31:3 (id: 173531)

**For whom did Job use to think calamity was reserved?**

Job used to think that calamity was for the unrighteous.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:3

## Job 31:6 (id: 173532)

**What does Job ask to be done so that God would know his integrity?**

He asks to be weighed in an even balance, so that God would know his integrity.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:6

## Job 31:8 (id: 173533)

**What does Job ask to happen to the harvest if he has turned out of the right way?**

He says to let the harvest be uprooted out of his field.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:8

## Job 31:10 (id: 173534)

**What does Job say should be the judgement if he was attracted to another woman?**

Job says to let his wife grind grain for another man.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:10

## Job 31:12 (id: 173535)

**What kind of fire does Job say this crime is like?**

Job says that it is like a fire that consumes everything.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:12

## Job 31:15 (id: 173536)

**What did God do for both the servants and for Job?**

God made and molded them all in the womb.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:15

## Job 31:18 (id: 173537)

**How does Job say he has treated the orphan from his youth?**

He says the orphan grew up with him as with a father.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:18

## Job 31:20 (id: 173538)

**What should be offered to warm the needy with no clothing?**

They should have been warmed with the wool of his sheep.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:20

## Job 31:22 (id: 173539)

**What part of his body does Job say should come off if he has failed to have compassion?**

Job says to let his upper arm fall from the shoulder blade.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:22

## Job 31:24 (id: 173540)

**What could people say to fine gold?**

They could say to fine gold, “You are my confidence.”

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:24

## Job 31:28 (id: 173541)

**Who would Job be denying if he worshiped the sun or moon?**

If he worshiped them, he would have denied the God who is above.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:28

## Job 31:30 (id: 173542)

**How has Job not suffered his mouth to sin?**

Job has not suffered his mouth to sin by asking for the life of those who hate him with a curse.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:30

## Job 31:32 (id: 173543)

**What had Job always done for the traveler?**

He had always opened his doors to the traveler.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:32

## Job 31:33 (id: 173544)

**How does Job say mankind has hidden his sins?**

Job says mankind hides sins by hiding his guilt in his chest.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:33

## Job 31:35 (id: 173545)

**What does Job want to have that his opponent has written?**

Job desired to have the indictment that his opponent had written.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:35

## Job 31:37 (id: 173546)

**How would Job go up to his opponent if he had their indictment?**

He would go up to him as a confident prince.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:37

## Job 31:40 (id: 173547)

**If Job has caused landowners to lose their lives, what does he call to grow instead of crops?**

Job said to let thorns grow instead of wheat and weeds instead of barley.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 31:40

## Job 32:1 (id: 173548)

**What did Job’s three friends do when they could not convince Job that he had done anything wrong?**

They stopped answering Job.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 32:1

## Job 32:2 (id: 173549)

**What emotion was kindled in Elihu when Job continued to justify himself rather than God?**

Elihu’s anger was kindled against Job.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 32:2

## Job 32:3–5 (id: 173550)

**Why was Elihu angry with Job’s three friends?**

Elihu was angry with Job’s friends because they had not been able to answer Job but they had still declared that he was wrong.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 32:3–JOB 32:5

## Job 32:6–7 (id: 173551)

**Why was Elihu timid and afraid to tell Job and his friends what he was thinking?**

Elihu was young and the others were all very old and should be able to teach wisdom.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 32:6–JOB 32:7

## Job 32:8 (id: 173552)

**Who does Elihu say gives understanding to man?**

The breath of the Almighty gives man understanding.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 32:8

## Job 32:9–10 (id: 173553)

**Why does Elihu say the others should listen to him and allow him to declare what he knows?**

It is not only the great who are wise, and it not the aged alone who understand justice.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 32:9–JOB 32:10

## Job 32:11–12 (id: 173554)

**What were Job’s friends not able to do even though Elihu waited for them to speak, and paid attention carefully?**

Job’s friends were not able to prove Job wrong or respond to his words.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 32:11–JOB 32:12

## Job 32:13 (id: 173555)

**Who does Elihu say must refute Job when the three friends, who thought they were wise, were not able to do that?**

It is God who must refute Job.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 32:13

## Job 32:15–16 (id: 173556)

**What does Elihu decide to do because the three friends were dumbfounded and could not answer Job?**

Elihu decided that because the friends had not a word more to say, he will not wait any longer.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 32:15–JOB 32:16

## Job 32:18 (id: 173557)

**What is it that compels Elihu to share his knowledge with Job?**

The spirit compels Elihu to share his knowledge.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 32:18

## Job 32:19 (id: 173558)

**What does Elihu say he is feeling like within his breast?**

He says his breast feels like wine in new wineskins that are ready to burst.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 32:19

## Job 32:21–22 (id: 173559)

**What does Elihu say his Maker would do to him if he were to speak and give honorific titles to any man?**

Elihu says that his Maker would soon take him away.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 32:21–JOB 32:22

## Job 33:1–3 (id: 173560)

**Why does Elihu beg Job to listen to the words he will speak?**

Elihu begs Job to listen because he will speak from the uprightness of his heart.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:1–JOB 33:3

## Job 33:4 (id: 173561)

**Who has made Elihu and what has given him life?**

The Spirit of God made Elihu and the Almighty gave him life.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:4

## Job 33:5 (id: 173562)

**What does Elihu ask Job to do if Job could answer Elihu?**

He asks Job to set his words in order and stand up before Elihu.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:5

## Job 33:6–7 (id: 173563)

**What reason does Elihu give that Job should not be afraid of him or feel pressure from Elihu?**

Elihu tells Job that they are the same in God’s sight and were both formed out of the clay.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:6–JOB 33:7

## Job 33:8–9 (id: 173564)

**What had Elihu heard Job saying?**

Elihu heard Job saying that he was clean, without transgression, innocent and there was no sin in him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:8–JOB 33:9

## Job 33:10 (id: 173565)

**Who does Job blame for finding opportunities to attack him, and for regarding him as an enemy?**

Job blames God for doing these things.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:10

## Job 33:12 (id: 173566)

**How does Elihu say God compares to man?**

Elihu says God is greater than man.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:12

## Job 33:13 (id: 173567)

**Why does Elihu say it is useless to struggle against God?**

God does not have to account for any of his doings.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:13

## Job 33:14–15 (id: 173568)

**How does Elihu say that God speaks to man?**

God speaks in a dream and in a vision during the night while men are sleeping.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:14–JOB 33:15

## Job 33:16–17 (id: 173569)

**Why does God open the ears of men and frighten them with threats?**

God does this in order to pull man back from sinful purposes and keep pride from him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:16–JOB 33:17

## Job 33:19–20 (id: 173570)

**What does Elihu say is the reason that man has pain on his bed, agony in his bones, and no desire for food or delicacies?**

Elihu says that this is because man is being punished.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:19–JOB 33:20

## Job 33:21–22 (id: 173571)

**What does Elihu say happens to a man who is being punished by God?**

A man’s flesh is consumed, his bones stick out and his soul draws close to the pit.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:21–JOB 33:22

## Job 33:24 (id: 173572)

**What could an angel mediator say to God to save a person from going down to the pit?**

The angel could say to God, “I have found a ransom for him.”

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:24

## Job 33:25 (id: 173573)

**What will happen to the flesh of the person who is saved from going down to the pit?**

His flesh will become fresher than a child’s.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:25

## Job 33:28 (id: 173574)

**What will happen to the life of a person who admits his sin and is rescued from the pit by God?**

That person’s life will continue to see light.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:28

## Job 33:29–30 (id: 173575)

**Why does Elihu say that God rescues a person from the pit?**

God does this so that a person may be enlightened with the light of life.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:29–JOB 33:30

## Job 33:33 (id: 173576)

**What does Elihu want to teach Job if Job will pay attention and listen to him and remain silent?**

Elihu wants to teach Job wisdom.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 33:33

## Job 34:1–3 (id: 173577)

**Who does Elihu want to listen to his words and hear him?**

Elhu wants the wise men and those who have knowledge to listen to him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 34:1–JOB 34:3

## Job 34:4 (id: 173578)

**What does Elihu want others to choose and discover for themselves?**

Elihu wants them to choose what is just and discover what is good.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 34:4

## Job 34:5 (id: 173579)

**What does Job say that God has taken away from him even though he is righteous?**

Job says that God has taken away his justice.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 34:5

## Job 34:8 (id: 173580)

**In whose company does Elihu say Job goes around?**

He says Job goes around in the company of those who do evil.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 34:8

## Job 34:10–12 (id: 173581)

**What does Elihu tell the men of understanding that God does not do?**

God does not do wickedness, commit sin, or pervert justice.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 34:10–JOB 34:12

## Job 34:13–15 (id: 173582)

**What does Elihu say would happen if God ever gathered back to himself his spirit and his breath?**

All flesh would perish and mankind would return to dust.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 34:13–JOB 34:15

## Job 34:17 (id: 173583)

**Who does Elihu’s question imply that Job is condemning?**

He implies Job is condemning God, who is righteous and mighty.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 34:17

## Job 34:19 (id: 173584)

**Who does Elihu say are the works of God’s hands?**

All people, rich and poor, are the work of God’s hands.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 34:19

## Job 34:21 (id: 173585)

**What does Elihu say that God sees.**

Elihu says that God sees a person’s ways and all his steps.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 34:21

## Job 34:25 (id: 173586)

**What does God do in the night to mighty men whose ways and deeds he knows?**

God overthrows them in the night and they are destroyed.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 34:25

## Job 34:26 (id: 173587)

**What will God do to those who do wicked deeds like criminals and make the cry of the poor come to him?**

God will kill them in the open sight of others.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 34:26

## Job 34:29 (id: 173588)

**Over whom does God rule?**

God rules over the nation and the individual alike.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 34:29

## Job 34:31–32 (id: 173589)

**What is Elihu suggesting that Job should admit to God?**

Elihu suggests that Job should admit that he is guilty and has committed sin, but will do it no longer.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 34:31–JOB 34:32

## Job 34:34–35 (id: 173590)

**What will men of understanding say about Job?**

They will say that Job speaks without knowledge and understanding.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 34:34–JOB 34:35

## Job 34:37 (id: 173591)

**What does Elihu say Job is adding to his sin because of his talking like wicked men?**

He says that Job is adding transgression to his sin.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 34:37

## Job 35:1–2 (id: 173592)

**How does Elihu imply Job compares himself to God?**

Elihu implies that Job thinks he is innocent, and that he is more righteous than God.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 35:1–JOB 35:2

## Job 35:5 (id: 173593)

**What does Elihu tell Job and his friends to look up and see?**

Elihu tells them to look up and see the sky.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 35:5

## Job 35:8 (id: 173594)

**What effect could Job’s wickedness or his rightousness have on another man?**

Job’s wickedness could hurt a man and his righteousness could benefit another human.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 35:8

## Job 35:9 (id: 173595)

**Why do people cry out for help from the arms of mighty men?**

They cry out for help because of the many acts of oppression done to them by others who are more powerful than they are..

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 35:9

## Job 35:10–11 (id: 173596)

**What things does Elihu say that God can do for people even though no one acknowledges it?**

God teaches us and makes us wise.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 35:10–JOB 35:11

## Job 35:12 (id: 173597)

**Why does Elihu say that God does not give an answer when people cry out to him?**

Elihu says that God does not give an answer when people cry out but proudly continue in sin.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 35:12

## Job 35:13 (id: 173598)

**What will God certainly not hear?**

He will certainly not hear prayers that lack sincerity.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 35:13

## Job 35:16 (id: 173599)

**What does Elihu accuse Job of doing when Job opens his mouth?**

He says Job opens his mouth to speak foolishness and to pile up words without knowledge.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 35:16

## Job 36:3 (id: 173600)

**To whom does Elihu acknowledge that righteousness belongs?**

Elihu acknowledges that righteousness belongs to his Maker.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:3

## Job 36:6 (id: 173601)

**What does God do for those who those who suffer?**

He does what is right for those who suffer.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:6

## Job 36:7 (id: 173602)

**What does God do for the righteous?**

He sets them on thrones like kings forever, and they are lifted up.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:7

## Job 36:9 (id: 173603)

**What does God reveal to those who are bound in chains and trapped in cords of suffering?**

He reveals to them what they have done, their transgressions, and how they behaved arrogantly.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:9

## Job 36:11 (id: 173604)

**What will happen to those who listen to God and worship him?**

They will spend their days in prosperity and their years in contentment.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:11

## Job 36:12 (id: 173605)

**What will happen to the people who do not listen to God?**

They will perish by the sword and die because they have no knowledge.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:12

## Job 36:13–14 (id: 173606)

**What happens to godless people who keep their anger and do not cry out to God for help?**

They die in their youth and their lives end in disgrace.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:13–JOB 36:14

## Job 36:15–16 (id: 173607)

**How does Elihu say God uses affliction and oppression?**

God uses suffering to keep people from perishing because of their sins.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:15–JOB 36:16

## Job 36:16 (id: 173608)

**What does Elihu say that God would like to do for Job?**

God would like to draw Job out of his distress and into a place of happiness and prosperity.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:16

## Job 36:17 (id: 173609)

**What has filled Job?**

He is full of the judgment on the wicked.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:17

## Job 36:18 (id: 173610)

**What things could lead Job to deception and turn him aside from justice?**

Anger with God could lead Job to deception, and a great bribe would not buy his pardon.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:18

## Job 36:19 (id: 173611)

**What things will not be able to help Job out of his distress?**

Job’s wealth and the force of his strength will not help him out of his distress.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:19

## Job 36:21 (id: 173612)

**Why does Elihu tell Job to be careful?**

He says Job would rather defy God than learn what God wants to teach him through suffering.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:21

## Job 36:23 (id: 173613)

**What can no one say about God?**

No one can say that God has committed unrighteousness.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:23

## Job 36:26 (id: 173614)

**What is it about God that we cannot calculate?**

We cannot calculate the number of his years.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:26

## Job 36:27–28 (id: 173615)

**How does God cause rain to fall?**

He draws up the drops of water and puts it in clouds which pour rain down and drop it in abundance on mankind.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:27–JOB 36:28

## Job 36:30–31 (id: 173616)

**Why does Elihu say that God spreads lightning and covers the sea with darkness?**

He spreads lightning around himself and covers the sea with darkness in order to judge people and give food in abundance.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:30–JOB 36:31

## Job 36:32–33 (id: 173617)

**What tells people and cattle of the coming storm?**

The thunder tells people and cattle of the coming storm.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 36:32–JOB 36:33

## Job 37:1–2 (id: 173618)

**What makes Elihu’s heart tremble?**

The noise of God’s voice and the sound of his roar causes Elihu’s heart to tremble.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 37:1–JOB 37:2

## Job 37:6 (id: 173619)

**What does God tell the snow and the rain to do?**

He tells the snow to fall to the earth, and the rain to become a great shower of rain.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 37:6

## Job 37:7 (id: 173620)

**Why does God stop the hand of every man from working?**

God stops them so that all people may see his deeds.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 37:7

## Job 37:8–9 (id: 173621)

**For what reason do the beasts go into hiding and stay in their dens?**

They hide and stay in their dens because of the storms that come.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 37:8–JOB 37:9

## Job 37:10 (id: 173622)

**What is given by the breath of God?**

By the breath of God ice is given.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 37:10

## Job 37:13 (id: 173623)

**For what reasons does God give guidance to the clouds and cause them to do whatever he commands?**

He makes this happen sometimes for correction, sometimes to water his land, and sometimes to provide rain for crops to feed people.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 37:13

## Job 37:14 (id: 173624)

**About what does Elihu want Job to stop and think?**

He wants Job to stop and think about God’s marvelous deeds.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 37:14

## Job 37:15 (id: 173625)

**What happens when God forces his will on the clouds?**

God makes lightning bolts flash in the clouds.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 37:15

## Job 37:18 (id: 173626)

**What image does Elihu use to describe the sky?**

He says the sky is as strong as a mirror of cast metal.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 37:18

## Job 37:19 (id: 173627)

**Why does Elihu say that he and others cannot lay out their arguments before God?**

They cannot lay out their arguments before God because of the darkness of their minds.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 37:19

## Job 37:21 (id: 173628)

**What is it that people cannot look at when the sky is clear?**

People cannot look at the sun when it is bright in the sky.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 37:21

## Job 37:23 (id: 173629)

**What does Elihu say that the Almighty does not do to people?**

The Almighty does not mistreat people, acting unjustly.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 37:23

## Job 37:24 (id: 173630)

**To whom does Elihu say that the Almighty does not pay attention?**

The Almighty does not pay attention to those who are wise in their own minds.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 37:24

## Job 38:1 (id: 173631)

**Out of what did Yahweh speak to Job?**

Yahweh spoke to Job out of a fierce storm.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 38:1

## Job 38:2 (id: 173632)

**By what means did someone darken counsel?**

By speaking without knowledge, Job made it harder for people to understand God's actions.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 38:2

## Job 38:3 (id: 173633)

**What does Yahweh tell Job he must do when Yahweh questions him?**

Job must gird up his loins like a man and answer Yahweh’s questions.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 38:3

## Job 38:6–7 (id: 173634)

**What sang together and who shouted for joy when Yahweh laid the cornerstone of the earth?**

The morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy when the cornerstone of the earth was laid.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 38:6–JOB 38:7

## Job 38:8 (id: 173635)

**To what does Yahweh compare the sea bursting out after it was shut up with doors?**

God compares the sea bursting out of doors to coming out of the womb.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 38:8

## Job 38:10–11 (id: 173636)

**What did Yahweh put in place to mark out the boundary of the sea so that it could come only so far and no farther?**

Yahweh put in place bars and doors to mark a boundary for the sea.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 38:10–JOB 38:11

## Job 38:14 (id: 173637)

**How is the earth changed in appearance like clay changes under a seal?**

The light of dawn changes the earth so that all things on it stand out clearly, like the folds of a piece of clothing seen in the light.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 38:14

## Job 38:19–21 (id: 173638)

**What does Yahweh say to mock Job about his lack of knowledge about the way to the resting place of light and darkness?**

Yahweh mocks Job by saying that undoubtedly Job should know about this because he was born then and the number of his days is so large.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 38:19–JOB 38:21

## Job 38:22–23 (id: 173639)

**For what reason does Yahweh say he has kept storehouses for the snow and the hail?**

Yahweh has kept these storehouses for times of trouble and for a day of battle and war.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 38:22–JOB 38:23

## Job 38:25–27 (id: 173640)

**Why does Yahweh cause it to rain on the wilderness in which there is no person?**

He causes it to rain in order to meet the needs of the barren and lonely regions and to make the tender grass sprout up.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 38:25–JOB 38:27

## Job 38:31 (id: 173641)

**What does Yahweh ask Job if he can do to Pleiades and Orion?**

He asks Job if he can tie the bands on the Pleiades or undo the cords of Orion.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 38:31

## Job 38:37–38 (id: 173642)

**What happens to the dust and clods of earth when Yahweh pours out water on them?**

The dust runs into a hard mass and the clods of earth clump tightly together.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 38:37–JOB 38:38

## Job 38:40 (id: 173643)

**Where do the young lion cubs wait for their food?**

They crouch in their dens and shelter in hiding to lie in wait.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 38:40

## Job 38:41 (id: 173644)

**Why do the young ones of the ravens stagger about?**

They stagger about for lack of food.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 38:41

## Job 39:4 (id: 173645)

**What happens to the young deer after they grow up in the open fields?**

They go out and do not come back again.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 39:4

## Job 39:5–6 (id: 173646)

**What has Yahweh made the house of the wild donkey?**

Yahweh has made the Arabah the house of the wild donkey.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 39:5–JOB 39:6

## Job 39:8 (id: 173647)

**Where does the wild donkey find food?**

He roams over the mountains where he looks for every green plant to eat.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 39:8

## Job 39:10 (id: 173648)

**What does Yahweh ask Job to make the wild ox do with a rope?**

He asks Job if, with a rope, he can make the wild ox plow the furrows or harrow the valleys for him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 39:10

## Job 39:13 (id: 173649)

**What does the ostrich flap proudly?**

The ostrich flaps its wings proudly as it runs fast.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 39:13

## Job 39:14 (id: 173650)

**What does the ostrich do with her eggs?**

She leaves her eggs on the earth, and lets them keep warm in the dust.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 39:14

## Job 39:16 (id: 173651)

**Why does the ostrich not fear that her labor might have been in vain?**

Yahweh has deprived her of wisdom and not given her any understanding.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 39:16

## Job 39:18 (id: 173652)

**What does Yahweh say the ostrich does when she runs?**

She laughs in scorn at the horse and its rider.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 39:18

## Job 39:19 (id: 173653)

**What clothes the neck of the horse?**

A flowing mane clothes its neck.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 39:19

## Job 39:22 (id: 173654)

**How does the horse react to the sword?**

He does not turn back from the sword.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 39:22

## Job 39:24 (id: 173655)

**What can the horse not do at the sound of the trumpet?**

It cannot stand in one place.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 39:24

## Job 39:27–28 (id: 173656)

**Where does the eagle make his nest and his home?**

He makes his nest in high places, and his home on the peaks of the crags.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 39:27–JOB 39:28

## Job 40:4 (id: 173657)

**How did Job do to show that he was too insignificant to answer Yahweh?**

Job put his hand over his mouth.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 40:4

## Job 40:6 (id: 173658)

**From what did Yahweh answer Job?**

Yahweh answered Job from out of a fierce storm.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 40:6

## Job 40:7 (id: 173659)

**What did Yahweh tell Job to do to prepare to answer Yahweh?**

He told Job to gird up his loins like a man.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 40:7

## Job 40:8 (id: 173660)

**Why did Yahweh say that Job was condemning Yahweh?**

He said Job condemned Yahweh so that Job could claim he was right.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 40:8

## Job 40:10 (id: 173661)

**With what does Yahweh challenge Job to clothe himself?**

He challenges Job to cloth himself with glory, splendor, greatness and majesty.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 40:10

## Job 40:12 (id: 173662)

**What does Yahweh tell Job to do to the wicked people?**

Yahweh tells Job to trample them down where they stand.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 40:12

## Job 40:15 (id: 173663)

**What does the Behemoth eat?**

He eats grass like an ox.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 40:15

## Job 40:17 (id: 173664)

**What is the tail of the Behemoth like?**

His tail is like a cedar.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 40:17

## Job 40:19 (id: 173665)

**What is one of the strongest animals God made?**

God says the Behemoth is the first of the ways of God, meaning first in strength.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 40:19

## Job 40:21 (id: 173666)

**Where does the Behemoth lie?**

He lies under the lotus plants in the shelter of the reeds.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 40:21

## Job 40:23 (id: 173667)

**What does the Behemoth think when the river floods and the Jordan surges?**

He does not tremble and he is confident.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 40:23

## Job 41:1 (id: 173668)

**With what does Yahweh ask Job if he can draw out Leviathan?**

Yahweh asks Job if he can draw out Leviathan with a fishhook.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 41:1

## Job 41:6 (id: 173669)

**What does God ask Job might happen if the fishermen were to catch Leviathan?**

He asks Job if the fishermen would bargain for Leviathan or divide him up to trade among the merchants.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 41:6

## Job 41:8 (id: 173670)

**What will happen if a person puts his hand on Leviathan?**

It someone puts his hand on the Leviathan just once, he will remember the battle and do it no more.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 41:8

## Job 41:10 (id: 173671)

**Since no one is fierce enough to dare stir Leviathan up, can anyone stand before Yahweh?**

No one dares to stir Leviathan up, so there is no one who can stand before Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 41:10

## Job 41:14 (id: 173672)

**How else does Yahweh describe Leviathan’s mouth?**

He says it is the doors of his face, ringed with teeth, which are a terror.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 41:14

## Job 41:16 (id: 173673)

**How close are the scales on the back of Leviathan?**

One is so near to another that no air can come between them.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 41:16

## Job 41:18 (id: 173674)

**How does Yahweh say Leviathan’s eyes are like?**

His eyes are like eyelids of the dawn, bright and glowing.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 41:18

## Job 41:19 (id: 173675)

**What comes out of Leviathan’s mouth?**

Out of Leviathan’s mouth go flames and fiery sparks.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 41:19

## Job 41:20 (id: 173676)

**What is the smoke from Leviathan’s nostrils like?**

It is like a boiling pot on a fire that has been fanned to be very hot.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 41:20

## Job 41:24 (id: 173677)

**What is Leviathan’s heart like?**

His heart is as hard as a lower millstone.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 41:24

## Job 41:25 (id: 173678)

**What do the mighty do when Leviathan raises himself up?**

They become afraid and draw back.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 41:25

## Job 41:26 (id: 173679)

**What happens when a sword, spear, arrow or any pointed weapon strikes Leviathan?**

They do nothing to him.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 41:26

## Job 41:27 (id: 173680)

**What does Leviathan think of iron and bronze?**

He thinks of iron as if it were straw and bronze as if it were rotten wood.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 41:27

## Job 41:30 (id: 173681)

**What kind of trail does Leviathan leave?**

He leaves a spreading trail in the mud as if he were a threshing sledge.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 41:30

## Job 41:31 (id: 173682)

**What does he make the deep to do?**

He makes the deep to foam up like a boiling pot of water.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 41:31

## Job 41:33 (id: 173683)

**Why does Leviathan have no equal on earth?**

He s has been made to live without fear.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 41:33

## Job 42:3 (id: 173684)

**What did Job acknowledge that he had spoken?**

He had spoken things that he did not understand, things too difficult for him to understand, which he did not know about.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 42:3

## Job 42:6 (id: 173685)

**How did Job respond to Yahweh after seeing him with his eye?**

Job despised himself and repented in dust and ashes.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 42:6

## Job 42:7 (id: 173686)

**What did Yahweh say that Eliphaz and his two friends had done wrong?**

They had not said right things about Yahweh, as Job had done.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 42:7

## Job 42:8 (id: 173687)

**What did Yahweh tell Eliphaz to give as an offering?**

He told Eliphaz to take seven bulls and seven rams to offer for themselves as a burnt offering.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 42:8

## Job 42:8 (#2) (id: 173688)

**Whose prayer did Yahweh say he would accept?**

Yahweh said he would accept Job’s prayer.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 42:8

## Job 42:10 (id: 173689)

**What happened after Job prayed for his friends?**

Yahweh restored his fortunes and gave him twice what he had possessed before.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 42:10

## Job 42:11 (id: 173690)

**What did every person give to Job when they came to comfort him?**

They each gave him a piece of silver and an earring of gold.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 42:11

## Job 42:12 (id: 173691)

**How did Yahweh bless Job at the end of his life?**

Yahweh blessed Job more than the first part of Job’s life.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 42:12

## Job 42:13 (id: 173692)

**How many more sons and daughters did Yahweh give to Job?**

He had seven sons and three daughters.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 42:13

## Job 42:15 (id: 173693)

**What was unique about Job’s daughters?**

There were no woman in the land as beautiful as Job’s daughters, and he gave them an inheritance with their brothers.

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 42:15

