# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Questions_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Proverbs 1:1 (id: 176501)

**Who was the author of these proverbs?**

Solomon, king of Israel, was the author of these proverbs.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 1:1

## Proverbs 1:3 (id: 176502)

**How do these proverbs teach people to live?**

These proverbs teaches people to live by doing what is right, just, and fair.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 1:3

## Proverbs 1:5 (id: 176503)

**What can the wise receive by listening to these proverbs?**

The wise can increase their learning by listening to these proverbs.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 1:5

## Proverbs 1:7 (id: 176504)

**What is the beginning of knowledge?**

The fear of Yahweh is the beginning of knowledge.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 1:7

## Proverbs 1:8 (id: 176505)

**To whose instruction should a son listen?**

A son should listen to instruction from his father and mother.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 1:8

## Proverbs 1:10 (id: 176506)

**What should a son do if sinners try to entice him with sin?**

A son should refuse to follow those who try to entice him with sin.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 1:10

## Proverbs 1:13 (id: 176507)

**With what do those who are sinning plan to fill their houses?**

Those who are sinning plan to fill their houses with what they steal from others.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 1:13

## Proverbs 1:16 (id: 176508)

**What do those who are sinning hurry to do?**

Those who are sinning hurry to shed blood.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 1:16

## Proverbs 1:19 (id: 176509)

**What does unjust gain do to those who hold on to it?**

Unjust gain takes away the lives of those who hold on to it.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 1:19

## Proverbs 1:20–21 (id: 176510)

**Who cries aloud in the streets, open places, and city gates?**

Wisdom cries aloud in the streets, open places, and city gates.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 1:20–PRO 1:21

## Proverbs 1:24–25 (id: 176511)

**What did those who lacked wisdom do when Wisdom called out to them?**

Those who lacked wisdom refused to listen and did not pay attention when Wisdom called out to them.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 1:24–PRO 1:25

## Proverbs 1:26 (id: 176512)

**What will Wisdom do when calamity comes on those who lacked wisdom?**

Wisdom will laugh when calamity comes on those who lacked wisdom.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 1:26

## Proverbs 1:28 (id: 176513)

**What will Wisdom do when those who lacked wisdom call upon her?**

Wisdom will not answer when those who lacked wisdom call upon her.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 1:28

## Proverbs 1:31 (id: 176514)

**With what will those who lacked wisdom be filled?**

Those who lacked wisdom will be filled with the fruit of their schemes.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 1:31

## Proverbs 1:33 (id: 176515)

**How will those live who listen to Wisdom?**

Those who listen to wisdom will live in safety.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 1:33

## Proverbs 2:1 (id: 176516)

**What does the father want his son to treasure?**

The father wants his son to treasure his commandments.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 2:1

## Proverbs 2:3–4 (id: 176517)

**How should the son seek and search for understanding?**

The son should seek understanding as silver, and search for it as a hidden treasure.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 2:3–PRO 2:4

## Proverbs 2:5 (id: 176518)

**If the son seeks and searches for understanding, what will he find?**

The son will find the knowledge of God.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 2:5

## Proverbs 2:7 (id: 176519)

**What is Yahweh for those who walk in integrity?**

Yahweh is a shield for those who walk in integrity.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 2:7

## Proverbs 2:9 (id: 176520)

**When wisdom comes into the son’s heart, what will he understand?**

The son will understand righteousness, justice, equity, and every good path.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 2:9

## Proverbs 2:11–13 (id: 176521)

**From what will discretion and understanding rescue the son?**

Discretion and understanding will rescue the son from the way of evil and from those who walk in the ways of darkness.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 2:11–PRO 2:13

## Proverbs 2:15 (id: 176522)

**How do those who walk in the ways of darkness hide their tracks?**

Those who walk in the ways of darkness hide their tracks using deception.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 2:15

## Proverbs 2:17 (id: 176523)

**What does the immoral woman forsake and forget?**

The immoral woman forsakes the companion of her youth, and forgets the covenant of her God.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 2:17

## Proverbs 2:18 (id: 176524)

**To where do the immoral woman’s tracks lead?**

The immoral woman’s tracks lead to those in the grave.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 2:18

## Proverbs 2:20 (id: 176525)

**In whose ways should the son walk?**

The son should walk in the way of good people and those who do right.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 2:20

## Proverbs 2:21 (id: 176526)

**What will happen to those who do right?**

Those who do right will make a home in the land.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 2:21

## Proverbs 2:22 (id: 176527)

**What will happen to those who are wicked?**

Those who are wicked will be cut off from the land.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 2:22

## Proverbs 3:1–2 (id: 176528)

**What will the father's commands and teachings add to his son?**

The father's commands and teachings will add years of life and peace to his son.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:1–PRO 3:2

## Proverbs 3:3 (id: 176529)

**Where must covenant faithfulness and trustworthiness be written?**

Covenant faithfulness and trustworthiness must be written on the tablet of the heart.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:3

## Proverbs 3:5 (id: 176530)

**On what must the son not lean?**

The son must not lean on (relay on) his own understanding.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:5

## Proverbs 3:7 (id: 176531)

**How must the son not see himself?**

The son must not see himself as wise.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:7

## Proverbs 3:9 (id: 176532)

**What must the son do with his wealth?**

The son must honor Yahweh with his wealth.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:9

## Proverbs 3:12 (id: 176533)

**Who does Yahweh discipline?**

Yahweh disciplines those he loves.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:12

## Proverbs 3:14 (id: 176534)

**Wisdom is better than what?**

Wisdom is better than silver and gold.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:14

## Proverbs 3:17 (id: 176535)

**What are all the paths of wisdom?**

All the paths of wisdom are peace.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:17

## Proverbs 3:19 (id: 176536)

**What did Yahweh do by wisdom?**

By wisdom, Yahweh founded the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:19

## Proverbs 3:21–22 (id: 176537)

**What will be life to the son’s soul?**

Sound judgment and discernment will be life to the son’s soul.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:21–PRO 3:22

## Proverbs 3:24 (id: 176538)

**If the son walks in wisdom, what will happen when he lies down?**

When he lies down, he will not be afraid and his sleep will be sweet.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:24

## Proverbs 3:25 (id: 176539)

**Of what should the son not be afraid?**

The son should not be afraid of sudden terror or devastation.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:25

## Proverbs 3:27 (id: 176540)

**What should the son do for those who deserve it?**

The son should not withhold good from those who deserve it.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:27

## Proverbs 3:29 (id: 176541)

**What should the son not do to his neighbor?**

The son should not make a plan to harm his neighbor.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:29

## Proverbs 3:32 (id: 176542)

**Who is wicked to Yahweh?**

The lying person is wicked to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:32

## Proverbs 3:34 (id: 176543)

**What does Yahweh do to the mockers?**

Yahweh mocks the mockers.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:34

## Proverbs 3:35 (id: 176544)

**What do the wise inherit?**

The wise inherit honor.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 3:35

## Proverbs 4:1–2 (id: 176545)

**What should the sons not forget?**

The sons should not forget their father’s instruction.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 4:1–PRO 4:2

## Proverbs 4:4 (id: 176546)

**How did the father tell the son he would live?**

The father told the son he would live by keeping the father’s commands.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 4:4

## Proverbs 4:6 (id: 176547)

**What will wisdom do for the son if the son does not abandon her, but loves her?**

Wisdom will watch over him and keep him safe.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 4:6

## Proverbs 4:8–9 (id: 176548)

**What will wisdom do for the son if the son cherishes and embraces her?**

Wisdom will exalt him, honor him, put a wreath on his head, and give him a beautiful crown.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 4:8–PRO 4:9

## Proverbs 4:11 (id: 176549)

**Down what kind of path does the father lead the son?**

The father leads the son down the straight path.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 4:11

## Proverbs 4:13 (id: 176550)

**On to what must the son hold, for it is his life?**

The son must hold on to discipline, for it is his life.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 4:13

## Proverbs 4:14–15 (id: 176551)

**What path must the son avoid?**

The son must avoid the path of the wicked.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 4:14–PRO 4:15

## Proverbs 4:16 (id: 176552)

**What must the wicked do before they can sleep?**

The wicked must do evil before they can sleep.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 4:16

## Proverbs 4:18 (id: 176553)

**What is the path of the righteous like?**

The path of the righteous is like a first light that grows brighter.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 4:18

## Proverbs 4:19 (id: 176554)

**What is the path of the wicked like?**

The path of the wicked is like darkness.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 4:19

## Proverbs 4:23 (id: 176555)

**Why must the son guard his heart with all diligence?**

The son must guard his heart with all diligence for from it flow the springs of life.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 4:23

## Proverbs 4:24 (id: 176556)

**What kind of speech and talk must the son put away?**

The son must put away crooked speech and corrupt talk.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 4:24

## Proverbs 4:25 (id: 176557)

**Where must the son fix his gaze?**

The son must fix his gaze straight before him.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 4:25

## Proverbs 5:1 (id: 176558)

**What will the son learn if he listens carefully to understanding?**

The son will learn about discretion if he listens carefully to understanding.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 5:1

## Proverbs 5:4 (id: 176559)

**In the end, what is an adulteress like?**

In the end, an adulteress is bitter as wormwood.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 5:4

## Proverbs 5:5 (id: 176560)

**To where do an adulteress’ feet go?**

An adulteress’ feet go down to death, all the way to Sheol.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 5:5

## Proverbs 5:8 (id: 176561)

**What path should wise sons take regarding an adulteress and her house?**

Wise sons should take a path far from an adulteress and not near her house.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 5:8

## Proverbs 5:9 (id: 176562)

**What will the sons give away if they become involved with an adulteress?**

If they become involved with an adulteress, the sons will give away their honor and years of their lives.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 5:9

## Proverbs 5:11 (id: 176563)

**What will happen at the end of their lives if the sons become involved with an adulteress?**

If they become involved with an adulteress, their flesh and body will waste away.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 5:11

## Proverbs 5:12 (id: 176564)

**What regret will the sons speak at the end of their lives if they become involved with an adulteress?**

If they become involved with an adulteress, they will say at the end of their lives that they regret having hated discipline and having rejected correction.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 5:12

## Proverbs 5:15 (id: 176565)

**From where should the sons drink?**

The sons should drink water from their own cistern and from their own well.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 5:15

## Proverbs 5:18 (id: 176566)

**With whom should the sons rejoice?**

The sons should rejoice with the wife of their youth.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 5:18

## Proverbs 5:19 (id: 176567)

**With what should the sons be captivated?**

The sons should be captivated by the love of the wife of their youth.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 5:19

## Proverbs 5:21 (id: 176568)

**What does Yahweh see?**

Yahweh sees everything a person does.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 5:21

## Proverbs 5:22 (id: 176569)

**What will seize and hold tight the wicked person?**

His sin will seize and hold the wicked person.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 5:22

## Proverbs 6:1–2 (id: 176570)

**How could the son lay a trap for himself?**

The son could lay a trap for himself by giving his promise for a loan of someone he does not know.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 6:1–PRO 6:2

## Proverbs 6:3 (id: 176571)

**What must the son do to save himself?**

To save himself the son must go to his neighbor and beg to be released from his promise.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 6:3

## Proverbs 6:6 (id: 176572)

**What should a lazy person study?**

A lazy person should study the ant.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 6:6

## Proverbs 6:8 (id: 176573)

**What does the ant do in the summer?**

In the summer, the ant prepares and stores its food.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 6:8

## Proverbs 6:11 (id: 176574)

**What will happen to the lazy person who does not rise from his slumber?**

Poverty will come on the lazy person who does not rise from his slumber.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 6:11

## Proverbs 6:12 (id: 176575)

**By what does a wicked man live?**

A wicked man lives by the crookedness of his speech.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 6:12

## Proverbs 6:15 (id: 176576)

**What will happen to the wicked man because of his evil plots?**

Disaster will overtake the wicked man in an instant.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 6:15

## Proverbs 6:16 (id: 176577)

**How many things does Yahweh hate and how many things are disgusting to him?**

There are six things that Yahweh hates, seven that are disgusting to him.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 6:16

## Proverbs 6:18 (id: 176578)

**What kind of feet does Yahweh hate?**

Yahweh hates the feet that quickly run to do evil.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 6:18

## Proverbs 6:19 (id: 176579)

**What kind of witness does Yahweh hate?**

Yahweh hates the witness who speaks out lies.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 6:19

## Proverbs 6:23 (id: 176580)

**What are “the commands” and “the teaching” likened to?**

The commands are likened to a lamp and the teachings are likened to a light.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 6:23

## Proverbs 6:26 (id: 176581)

**What can sleeping with the wife of another cost the son?**

Sleeping with the wife of another can cost the son his very life.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 6:26

## Proverbs 6:30 (id: 176582)

**Why might people not despise a thief if he steals?**

People might not despise a thief if he steals in order to satisfy his need when he is hungry.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 6:30

## Proverbs 6:32 (id: 176583)

**Who does one who commits adultery destroy?**

One who commits adultery destroys himself.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 6:32

## Proverbs 6:35 (id: 176584)

**What will the one who takes revenge against adultery not accept?**

The one who takes revenge against adultery will not accept compensation.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 6:35

## Proverbs 7:1–2 (id: 176585)

**What must the son keep and store up in order to live?**

The son must keep and store up his father’s commands and instruction.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 7:1–PRO 7:2

## Proverbs 7:4–5 (id: 176586)

**From who does wisdom and understanding keep the son?**

Wisdom and understanding keep the son from the seductive woman.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 7:4–PRO 7:5

## Proverbs 7:6–7 (id: 176587)

**What did Solomon see as he looked out through the lattice?**

Solomon saw many untaught young men and among them a young man who had no sense.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 7:6–PRO 7:7

## Proverbs 7:10 (id: 176588)

**How was the woman that the young man met dressed?**

The woman was dressed like a prostitute.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 7:10

## Proverbs 7:12 (id: 176589)

**What does the woman do at every corner?**

The woman lies in wait at every corner.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 7:12

## Proverbs 7:14 (id: 176590)

**What had the woman made earlier in the day?**

Earlier in the day, the woman had made her peace offering.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 7:14

## Proverbs 7:15 (id: 176591)

**What had the woman been eagerly seeking?**

The woman had been eagerly seeking the face of the young man.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 7:15

## Proverbs 7:16–18 (id: 176592)

**What does the woman invite the young man to do?**

The woman invites the young man to go with her to her bed until morning.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 7:16–PRO 7:18

## Proverbs 7:19 (id: 176593)

**Where is the woman’s husband?**

The woman’s husband is away on a long journey.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 7:19

## Proverbs 7:22 (id: 176594)

**In what way does the young man walk after the woman?**

The young man walks after the woman like an ox to the slaughter or like a deer caught in a trap.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 7:22

## Proverbs 7:23 (id: 176595)

**What will the young man’s actions cost him?**

The young man’s actions will cost him his life.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 7:23

## Proverbs 7:25 (id: 176596)

**What wise instruction is the young man given about the woman?**

The young man is wisely instructed to not go astray into her path.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 7:25

## Proverbs 7:27 (id: 176597)

**On what road is the woman’s house?**

The woman’s house is on the road to Sheol.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 7:27

## Proverbs 8:1–3 (id: 176598)

**Who calls out beside the entrance to the city?**

Wisdom calls out beside the entrance to the city.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 8:1–PRO 8:3

## Proverbs 8:4 (id: 176599)

**To whom does Wisdom call?**

Wisdom calls to the children of mankind.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 8:4

## Proverbs 8:6–7 (id: 176600)

**What kinds of things does Wisdom speak?**

Wisdom speaks of noble things and of what is trustworthy.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 8:6–PRO 8:7

## Proverbs 8:11 (id: 176601)

**What is Wisdom more valuable than?**

Wisdom is more valuable than jewels.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 8:11

## Proverbs 8:13 (id: 176602)

**What do those who fear Yahweh hate?**

Those who fear Yahweh hate evil, pride, arrogance, and perverted speech.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 8:13

## Proverbs 8:15–16 (id: 176603)

**How do kings and princes who have Wisdom govern?**

Kings and princes who have Wisdom govern justly.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 8:15–PRO 8:16

## Proverbs 8:19 (id: 176604)

**What is the fruit of Wisdom better than?**

The fruit of Wisdom is better than gold and silver.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 8:19

## Proverbs 8:21 (id: 176605)

**What will Wisdom give to those who love her?**

Wisdom will give an inheritance to those who love her.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 8:21

## Proverbs 8:23 (id: 176606)

**When was Wisdom set up?**

Wisdom was set up from ages long ago, from the first.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 8:23

## Proverbs 8:26–27 (id: 176607)

**Where was Wisdom when Yahweh made the earth and heavens?**

Wisdom was there when Yahweh made the earth and heavens.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 8:26–PRO 8:27

## Proverbs 8:30 (id: 176608)

**What was Wisdom doing beside Yahweh when Yahweh made everything?**

Wisdom was beside Yahweh as a master craftsman when Yahweh made everything.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 8:30

## Proverbs 8:31 (id: 176609)

**What was Wisdom’s delight?**

Wisdom’s delight was mankind.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 8:31

## Proverbs 8:35 (id: 176610)

**What does one who finds Wisdom also find?**

One who finds Wisdom also finds life and the favor of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 8:35

## Proverbs 8:36 (id: 176611)

**What does one who fails to find Wisdom also find?**

One who fails to find Wisdom also finds death.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 8:36

## Proverbs 9:1 (id: 176612)

**What has Wisdom built?**

Wisdom has built her own house.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 9:1

## Proverbs 9:3–4 (id: 176613)

**Who are the invitations that Wisdom sends out directed to?**

The invitations Wisdom sends out are directed to the untaught, to those who have no sense.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 9:3–PRO 9:4

## Proverbs 9:6 (id: 176614)

**What does Wisdom say the untaught should leave behind?**

Wisdom says the untaught should leave behind their untaught ways.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 9:6

## Proverbs 9:7–8 (id: 176615)

**What happens to one who reproves a mocker?**

One who reproves a mocker invites abuse and will be hurt and hated.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 9:7–PRO 9:8

## Proverbs 9:8 (id: 176616)

**What happens to one who instructs a wise man?**

One who instructs a wise man is loved.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 9:8

## Proverbs 9:10 (id: 176617)

**What is the beginning of wisdom?**

The fear of Yahweh is the beginning of wisdom.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 9:10

## Proverbs 9:10 (#2) (id: 176618)

**What is understanding?**

The knowledge of the Holy One is understanding.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 9:10

## Proverbs 9:13 (id: 176619)

**What are the characteristics of a foolish woman?**

A foolish woman is noisy, untaught, and knows nothing.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 9:13

## Proverbs 9:17 (id: 176620)

**How can stolen and secret things initially be to the one who gets them?**

Stolen and secret things can initially be sweet and pleasant to the one who gets them.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 9:17

## Proverbs 9:18 (id: 176621)

**Who are in the foolish woman’s house?**

The dead in the depths of Sheol are in the woman’s house.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 9:18

## Proverbs 10:1 (id: 176622)

**How does a father react to a wise child?**

A wise child makes his father rejoice.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 10:1

## Proverbs 10:3 (id: 176623)

**What does Yahweh do to the cravings of the wicked?**

Yahweh frustrates the cravings of the wicked.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 10:3

## Proverbs 10:4 (id: 176624)

**What is the result of a lazy hand?**

A lazy hand causes a person to be poor.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 10:4

## Proverbs 10:6 (id: 176625)

**What do those who do what is right receive from God?**

Those who do what is right receive gifts from God.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 10:6

## Proverbs 10:8 (id: 176626)

**What will happen to a talkative fool?**

A talkative fool will come to ruin.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 10:8

## Proverbs 10:12 (id: 176627)

**What does love cover?**

Love covers over all offenses.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 10:12

## Proverbs 10:13 (id: 176628)

**What is found on the lips of a discerning person?**

Wisdom is found on the lips of a discerning person.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 10:13

## Proverbs 10:17 (id: 176629)

**What happens to the one who rejects reproof?**

The one who rejects reproof is led astray.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 10:17

## Proverbs 10:19 (id: 176630)

**What is not lacking when there are many words?**

Transgression (sin) is not lacking when there are many words.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 10:19

## Proverbs 10:22 (id: 176631)

**What do the good gifts of Yahweh bring?**

The good gifts of Yahweh bring wealth.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 10:22

## Proverbs 10:25 (id: 176632)

**What are the wicked like?**

The wicked are like a storm that passes by and is no more.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 10:25

## Proverbs 10:26 (id: 176633)

**What is like smoke in the eyes?**

The sluggard is like smoke in the eyes to those who send him.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 10:26

## Proverbs 10:27 (id: 176634)

**What will the years of the wicked be?**

The years of the wicked will be short.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 10:27

## Proverbs 10:29 (id: 176635)

**Who does the way of Yahweh protect?**

The way of Yahweh protects those who have integrity.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 10:29

## Proverbs 10:31 (id: 176636)

**What comes out of the mouth of those doing right?**

Out of the mouth of those doing right comes the fruit of wisdom.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 10:31

## Proverbs 11:2 (id: 176637)

**What comes before disgrace?**

Pride comes before disgrace.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 11:2

## Proverbs 11:4 (id: 176638)

**What is valuable on the day of wrath?**

Having done right is valuable on the day of wrath.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 11:4

## Proverbs 11:6 (id: 176639)

**What traps the treacherous (wicked)?**

The treacherous are trapped by their cravings.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 11:6

## Proverbs 11:8 (id: 176640)

**What keeps a person away from trouble?**

Doing what is right keeps a person away from trouble.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 11:8

## Proverbs 11:9 (id: 176641)

**How does the godless person destroy his neighbor?**

The godless person destroys his neighbor with his mouth.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 11:9

## Proverbs 11:13 (id: 176642)

**What does a faithful person do instead of slandering?**

A faithful person keeps a matter covered instead of slandering.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 11:13

## Proverbs 11:15 (id: 176643)

**What should a person not do for a stranger because it will bring harm to himself?**

A person should not guarantee a loan for a stranger.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 11:15

## Proverbs 11:18 (id: 176644)

**How does a wicked person get his wages?**

A wicked person lies to get his wages.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 11:18

## Proverbs 11:20 (id: 176645)

**In whom does Yahweh delight?**

Yahweh delights in those whose ways are blameless.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 11:20

## Proverbs 11:21 (id: 176646)

**Of what can everyone be sure?**

Everyone can be sure that the wicked will not go unpunished.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 11:21

## Proverbs 11:24 (id: 176647)

**What happens to the one who sows seed?**

The one who sows seeds will accumulate even more.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 11:24

## Proverbs 11:25 (id: 176648)

**What does the one who gives water to others receive?**

The one who gives water to others receives water for himself.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 11:25

## Proverbs 11:28 (id: 176649)

**What happens to the one who trusts in his riches?**

The one who trusts in his riches will fall.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 11:28

## Proverbs 11:30 (id: 176650)

**Who are like a tree of life?**

Those who do right are like a tree of life.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 11:30

## Proverbs 11:31 (id: 176651)

**Who will receive what they deserve?**

Those who do right, and much more the wicked and the sinner will receive what they deserve.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 11:31

## Proverbs 12:1 (id: 176652)

**What does a stupid person hate?**

A stupid person hates correction.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 12:1

## Proverbs 12:2 (id: 176653)

**Who does Yahweh condemn?**

Yahweh condemns a man who makes evil plans.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 12:2

## Proverbs 12:4 (id: 176654)

**What is a husband’s crown?**

A worthy wife is a husband’s crown.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 12:4

## Proverbs 12:5 (id: 176655)

**What kind of advice do the wicked give?**

The wicked give deceitful advice.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 12:5

## Proverbs 12:7 (id: 176656)

**What happens to the house of those who do right?**

The house of those who do right will stand.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 12:7

## Proverbs 12:10 (id: 176657)

**Who cares about the needs of his animal?**

The one who does right cares about the needs of his animal.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 12:10

## Proverbs 12:13 (id: 176658)

**What traps an evil person?**

An evil person is trapped by his wicked talk.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 12:13

## Proverbs 12:15 (id: 176659)

**How does the way of a fool look in his own eyes?**

The way of a fool is right in his own eyes.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 12:15

## Proverbs 12:18 (id: 176660)

**What are words spoken rashly like?**

Words spoken rashly are like the thrusts of a sword.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 12:18

## Proverbs 12:20 (id: 176661)

**What is in the heart of those who plan to do evil?**

Deceit is in the heart of those who plan to do evil.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 12:20

## Proverbs 12:22 (id: 176662)

**What does Yahweh hate?**

Yahweh hates lying lips.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 12:22

## Proverbs 12:24 (id: 176663)

**To what will the lazy be subject?**

The lazy will be subject to forced labor.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 12:24

## Proverbs 12:26 (id: 176664)

**Where does the way of the wicked lead them?**

The way of the wicked leads them astray.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 12:26

## Proverbs 12:28 (id: 176665)

**What do those who walk in the right way find?**

Those who walk in the right way find life.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 12:28

## Proverbs 13:1 (id: 176666)

**What does a wise son hear?**

A wise son hears his father’s instruction.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 13:1

## Proverbs 13:3 (id: 176667)

**How does a person protect his life?**

A person protects his life by guarding his mouth.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 13:3

## Proverbs 13:4 (id: 176668)

**Who craves, but gets nothing?**

The lazy craves, but gets nothing.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 13:4

## Proverbs 13:7 (id: 176669)

**How are some truly wealthy?**

Some are truly wealthy by giving everything away.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 13:7

## Proverbs 13:8 (id: 176670)

**What kind of threat will a poor person never receive?**

A poor person will never receive a ransom threat.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 13:8

## Proverbs 13:10 (id: 176671)

**What does pride breed?**

Pride breeds only conflict.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 13:10

## Proverbs 13:11 (id: 176672)

**How does wealth dwindle away?**

Wealth dwindles away when there is too much vanity.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 13:11

## Proverbs 13:14 (id: 176673)

**What is a fountain of life?**

The teaching of the wise is a fountain of life.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 13:14

## Proverbs 13:16 (id: 176674)

**Out of what do the wise act in every decision?**

The wise act out of knowledge in every decision.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 13:16

## Proverbs 13:18 (id: 176675)

**What will come to him who learns from correction?**

Honor will come to him who learns from correction.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 13:18

## Proverbs 13:20 (id: 176676)

**With whom should a person walk in order to be wise?**

In order to be wise, a person should walk with wise people.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 13:20

## Proverbs 13:22 (id: 176677)

**For whom is a sinner’s wealth stored up?**

A sinner’s wealth is stored up for the one who does right.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 13:22

## Proverbs 13:24 (id: 176678)

**How does a parent show love for his child?**

A parent shows love for his child by being careful to discipline him.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 13:24

## Proverbs 13:25 (id: 176679)

**In what condition is the stomach of the wicked?**

The stomach of the wicked is always hungry.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 13:25

## Proverbs 14:1 (id: 176680)

**What does a wise woman do?**

A wise woman builds her house.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 14:1

## Proverbs 14:2 (id: 176681)

**Who despises Yahweh?**

The one who is dishonest in his ways despises Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 14:2

## Proverbs 14:5 (id: 176682)

**What does a faithful witness not do?**

A faithful witness does not lie.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 14:5

## Proverbs 14:7 (id: 176683)

**What will not be found on the lips of a foolish person?**

Knowledge will not be found on the lips of a foolish person.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 14:7

## Proverbs 14:11 (id: 176684)

**What will happen to the house of the wicked?**

The house of the wicked will be destroyed.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 14:11

## Proverbs 14:11 (#2) (id: 176685)

**What will happen to the tent of the upright?**

The tent of the upright will flourish.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 14:11

## Proverbs 14:14 (id: 176686)

**What will someone who is not faithful get?**

Someone who is not faithful will get what his ways deserve.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 14:14

## Proverbs 14:16 (id: 176687)

**What does a fool do when he is warned?**

A fool confidently dismisses a warning.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 14:16

## Proverbs 14:17 (id: 176688)

**What does someone who is quick to become angry do?**

Someone who is quick to become angry does foolish things.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 14:17

## Proverbs 14:19 (id: 176689)

**To whom will the evil bow down?**

The evil will bow down before those who are good.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 14:19

## Proverbs 14:22 (id: 176690)

**What do those receive who plan to do good?**

Those who plan to do good receive covenant faithfulness and trustworthiness.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 14:22

## Proverbs 14:23 (id: 176691)

**What comes with all hard work?**

With all hard work comes a profit.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 14:23

## Proverbs 14:27 (id: 176692)

**What is a fountain of life?**

The fear of Yahweh is a fountain of life.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 14:27

## Proverbs 14:29 (id: 176693)

**Who exalts folly?**

The quick to get angry exalts folly.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 14:29

## Proverbs 14:31 (id: 176694)

**Who curses his Maker by his actions?**

The one who oppresses the poor curses his Maker.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 14:31

## Proverbs 14:34 (id: 176695)

**What exalts a nation?**

Doing what is right exalts a nation.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 14:34

## Proverbs 15:1 (id: 176696)

**What turns away wrath?**

A gentle answer turns away wrath.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 15:1

## Proverbs 15:3 (id: 176697)

**Over whom does Yahweh watch?**

Yahweh watches over the evil and the good.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 15:3

## Proverbs 15:5 (id: 176698)

**What is a fool’s attitude toward his father’s discipline?**

A fool has contempt for his father’s discipline.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 15:5

## Proverbs 15:8 (id: 176699)

**What kind of sacrifice does Yahweh hate?**

Yahweh hates the sacrifice of the wicked.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 15:8

## Proverbs 15:10 (id: 176700)

**What awaits anyone who forsakes the way?**

Harsh discipline awaits anyone who forsakes the way.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 15:10

## Proverbs 15:13 (id: 176701)

**What makes the face cheerful?**

A joyful heart makes the face cheerful.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 15:13

## Proverbs 15:16 (id: 176702)

**What is better than great treasure with confusion?**

A little with the fear of Yahweh is better than great treasure with confusion.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 15:16

## Proverbs 15:18 (id: 176703)

**What kind of person quiets a quarrel?**

A person who is slow to anger quiets a quarrel.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 15:18

## Proverbs 15:20 (id: 176704)

**What does a wise son bring to his father?**

A wise son brings joy to his father.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 15:20

## Proverbs 15:22 (id: 176705)

**What causes plans to succeed?**

Numerous advisers cause plans to succeed.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 15:22

## Proverbs 15:25 (id: 176706)

**What does Yahweh tear down?**

Yahweh tears down the legacy of the proud.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 15:25

## Proverbs 15:28 (id: 176707)

**What does the one who does right do before answering?**

The one who does right ponders before answering.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 15:28

## Proverbs 15:31 (id: 176708)

**What does the wise person do when someone corrects him?**

The wise person pays attention when someone corrects him.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 15:31

## Proverbs 15:33 (id: 176709)

**What comes before honor?**

Humility comes before honor.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 15:33

## Proverbs 16:2 (id: 176710)

**How do all of a person’s ways appear to himself?**

All of a person’s ways are pure in his own eyes.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 16:2

## Proverbs 16:4 (id: 176711)

**For what has Yahweh made everything?**

Yahweh has made everything for its purpose.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 16:4

## Proverbs 16:6 (id: 176712)

**By what is iniquity (sin) forgiven?**

By covenant faithfulness and trustworthiness iniquity (sin) forgiven.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 16:6

## Proverbs 16:9 (id: 176713)

**Once a person plans out his way, what does Yahweh do?**

Once a person plans out his way, Yahweh directs his steps.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 16:9

## Proverbs 16:12 (id: 176714)

**How is a throne established?**

A throne is established by doing what is right.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 16:12

## Proverbs 16:14 (id: 176715)

**What is a messenger of death?**

A king’s wrath is a messenger of death.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 16:14

## Proverbs 16:16 (id: 176716)

**What should be chosen more than gold and silver?**

Wisdom and understanding should be chosen more than gold and silver.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 16:16

## Proverbs 16:18 (id: 176717)

**What comes before a downfall?**

A haughty spirit comes before a downfall.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 16:18

## Proverbs 16:20 (id: 176718)

**How does a person find what is good in what they are taught?**

A person who contemplates what he is taught finds what is good.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 16:20

## Proverbs 16:23 (id: 176719)

**What does the heart of the wise do for his mouth?**

The heart of the wise gives insight to his mouth.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 16:23

## Proverbs 16:25 (id: 176720)

**Even though a way may seem right to a man, where can it lead?**

Even though a way may seem right to a man, it may lead to death.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 16:25

## Proverbs 16:28 (id: 176721)

**What separates close friends?**

Gossip separates close friends.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 16:28

## Proverbs 16:30 (id: 176722)

**What is the one who winks the eye doing?**

The one who winks the eye is plotting evil things.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 16:30

## Proverbs 16:31 (id: 176723)

**What is a crown of glory?**

Gray hair is a crown of glory.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 16:31

## Proverbs 16:32 (id: 176724)

**Who is stronger than one who conquers a city?**

One who rules his spirit is stronger than one who conquers a city.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 16:32

## Proverbs 16:33 (id: 176725)

**How is the decision of the lots made?**

The decision of the lots is made by Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 16:33

## Proverbs 17:2 (id: 176726)

**What does a wise servant do with a shameful son?**

A wise servant rules over a shameful son.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 17:2

## Proverbs 17:4 (id: 176727)

**To whom does a liar pay attention?**

A liar pays attention to those who say evil things.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 17:4

## Proverbs 17:5 (id: 176728)

**What happens to those who rejoice at misfortune?**

Those who rejoice at misfortune will not go unpunished.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 17:5

## Proverbs 17:8 (id: 176729)

**How is a bribe like a magic stone?**

A bribe is like a magic stone because the one who gives it succeeds wherever he turns.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 17:8

## Proverbs 17:10 (id: 176730)

**Even what fails to deeply affect a fool?**

Even a hundred blows fail to deeply affect a fool.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 17:10

## Proverbs 17:12 (id: 176731)

**What is worse than meeting a bear robbed of her cubs?**

Meeting a fool in his foolishness is worse than meeting a bear robbed of her cubs.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 17:12

## Proverbs 17:14 (id: 176732)

**What should a person do before a dispute breaks out?**

A person should walk away before a dispute breaks out.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 17:14

## Proverbs 17:15 (id: 176733)

**What kind of people are an wicked to Yahweh?**

A person who acquits the wicked or condemns those who do right is wicked to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 17:15

## Proverbs 17:18 (id: 176734)

**What does a man having no sense do?**

A man having no sense makes binding promises for his neighbor’s debts.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 17:18

## Proverbs 17:20 (id: 176735)

**What causes a person to fall into calamity?**

An evil tongue causes a person to fall into calamity.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 17:20

## Proverbs 17:22 (id: 176736)

**What is good medicine?**

A cheerful heart is good medicine.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 17:22

## Proverbs 17:25 (id: 176737)

**What is a foolish son to his father and mother?**

A foolish son is a grief to his father and bitterness to his mother.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 17:25

## Proverbs 17:28 (id: 176738)

**How can a fool be considered wise?**

A fool can be considered wise if he keeps silent.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 17:28

## Proverbs 18:2 (id: 176739)

**In what does a fool not find pleasure?**

A fool finds no pleasure in understanding.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 18:2

## Proverbs 18:3 (id: 176740)

**What comes with a wicked person?**

Contempt, shame, and reproach come with a wicked person.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 18:3

## Proverbs 18:6 (id: 176741)

**What do a fool’s lips bring him?**

A fool’s lips bring him conflict.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 18:6

## Proverbs 18:8 (id: 176742)

**What are like delicious morsels?**

The words of a gossip are like delicious morsels.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 18:8

## Proverbs 18:10 (id: 176743)

**What is a strong tower?**

The name of Yahweh is a strong tower.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 18:10

## Proverbs 18:12 (id: 176744)

**What is the attitude of a person before his downfall?**

Before his downfall, a person’s heart is proud.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 18:12

## Proverbs 18:14 (id: 176745)

**What is something very difficult to bear?**

A broken spirit is something very difficult to bear.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 18:14

## Proverbs 18:17 (id: 176746)

**Who seems right at first?**

The first to plead his case seems right.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 18:17

## Proverbs 18:19 (id: 176747)

**What is harder to win than a strong city?**

An offended brother is harder to win than a strong city.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 18:19

## Proverbs 18:21 (id: 176748)

**What are in the power of the tongue?**

Death and life are in the power of the tongue.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 18:21

## Proverbs 18:23 (id: 176749)

**How does a rich person answer others?**

A rich person answers others harshly.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 18:23

## Proverbs 19:2 (id: 176750)

**What must a person have in addition to desire?**

A person must have knowledge in addition to desire.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 19:2

## Proverbs 19:5 (id: 176751)

**What will happen to a person who is a false witness?**

A false witness will not go unpunished.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 19:5

## Proverbs 19:7 (id: 176752)

**What happens when a poor man calls out to his friends?**

When a poor man calls out to his friends, they are gone.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 19:7

## Proverbs 19:8 (id: 176753)

**What does a person do who loves his own soul?**

A person who loves his own soul gets wisdom.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 19:8

## Proverbs 19:11 (id: 176754)

**What does a person with discretion do when offended?**

A person with discretion overlooks an offense.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 19:11

## Proverbs 19:13 (id: 176755)

**What is like a constant dripping of water?**

A quarreling wife is like a constant dripping of water.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 19:13

## Proverbs 19:14 (id: 176756)

**From where does a prudent wife come?**

A prudent (wise) wife is from Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 19:14

## Proverbs 19:17 (id: 176757)

**How does a person lend to Yahweh?**

One who is kind to the poor lends to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 19:17

## Proverbs 19:19 (id: 176758)

**Who will have to be rescued a second time?**

A hot\-tempered (angry) person will have to be rescued a second time.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 19:19

## Proverbs 19:20 (id: 176759)

**How can a person become wise by the end of his life?**

A person can become wise by the end of his life by listening to advice and accepting instruction.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 19:20

## Proverbs 19:23 (id: 176760)

**What leads people to life?**

Honor for Yahweh leads people to life.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 19:23

## Proverbs 19:24 (id: 176761)

**What is a sluggard unable to do?**

A sluggard is unable to even bring his hand up from the dish to his mouth.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 19:24

## Proverbs 19:26 (id: 176762)

**What does a child bring who robs his father and chases his mother away?**

A child who robs his father and chases his mother away brings shame and reproach.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 19:26

## Proverbs 19:28 (id: 176763)

**What makes justice a mockery?**

A corrupt witness makes justice a mockery.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 19:28

## Proverbs 20:2 (id: 176764)

**What happens to someone who angers the king?**

Someone who angers the king forfeits his life.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 20:2

## Proverbs 20:3 (id: 176765)

**Into what does every fool jump?**

Every fool jumps into an argument.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 20:3

## Proverbs 20:6 (id: 176766)

**What kind of person is difficult to find?**

A faithful person is difficult to find.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 20:6

## Proverbs 20:9 (id: 176767)

**What is something that no one can say about himself?**

No one can say about himself, “I have kept my heart clean; I am free from sin.”

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 20:9

## Proverbs 20:11 (id: 176768)

**By what is even a youth known?**

Even a youth is known by his actions.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 20:11

## Proverbs 20:13 (id: 176769)

**Loving what brings a person to poverty?**

Loving sleep brings a person to poverty.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 20:13

## Proverbs 20:15 (id: 176770)

**What are like a precious jewel?**

Lips of knowledge are like a precious jewel.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 20:15

## Proverbs 20:17 (id: 176771)

**What does bread gained by deceit taste like afterward?**

Bread gained by deceit tastes like gravel afterward.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 20:17

## Proverbs 20:20 (id: 176772)

**What happens to a person who curses his father or mother?**

A person who curses his father or mother will have his lamp snuffed out.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 20:20

## Proverbs 20:22 (id: 176773)

**Instead of trying to pay someone back for a wrong, what should a person do?**

Instead of trying to pay someone back, a person should wait for Yahweh to rescue him.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 20:22

## Proverbs 20:25 (id: 176774)

**What is it a snare to do rashly?**

It is a snare to make a vow rashly.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 20:25

## Proverbs 20:28 (id: 176775)

**What preserves the king?**

Covenant faithfulness and trustworthiness preserve the king.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 20:28

## Proverbs 20:29 (id: 176776)

**What is the glory of young men?**

The glory of young men is their strength.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 20:29

## Proverbs 21:1 (id: 176777)

**What does Yahweh direct wherever he pleases?**

Yahweh directs a king’s heart wherever he pleases.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 21:1

## Proverbs 21:3 (id: 176778)

**What is more acceptable to Yahweh than sacrifice?**

To do what is right and just is more acceptable to Yahweh than sacrifice.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 21:3

## Proverbs 21:6 (id: 176779)

**What happens to someone who acquires riches by a lying tongue?**

Someone who acquires riches by a lying tongue is killed by that snare.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 21:6

## Proverbs 21:7 (id: 176780)

**Why are the wicked swept away?**

The wicked are swept away because they refuse to do what is just.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 21:7

## Proverbs 21:10 (id: 176781)

**What is not seen in the eyes of the wicked?**

Kindness is not seen in the eyes of the wicked.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 21:10

## Proverbs 21:11 (id: 176782)

**Who learns wisdom when a mocker is punished?**

The untaught learn wisdom when a mocker is punished.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 21:11

## Proverbs 21:14 (id: 176783)

**What does a secret gift accomplish?**

A secret gift appeases anger.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 21:14

## Proverbs 21:16 (id: 176784)

**Where does one who wanders from understanding rest?**

One who wanders from understanding rests in the assembly of the dead.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 21:16

## Proverbs 21:19 (id: 176785)

**Where is it better to live than with a complaining wife?**

It is better to live in the desert than with a complaining wife.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 21:19

## Proverbs 21:22 (id: 176786)

**What is a wise man able to bring down?**

A wise man is able to bring down the stronghold of the city of the mighty.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 21:22

## Proverbs 21:24 (id: 176787)

**What is the name for a proud and haughty person?**

A proud and haughty person is called a “mocker.”

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 21:24

## Proverbs 21:27 (id: 176788)

**What kind of sacrifice is detestable?**

The sacrifice of the wicked is detestable.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 21:27

## Proverbs 21:30 (id: 176789)

**What cannot stand against Yahweh?**

No wisdom, understanding, or advice can stand against Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 21:30

## Proverbs 21:31 (id: 176790)

**Who gives the victory in the day of battle?**

Yahweh gives the victory in the day of battle.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 21:31

## Proverbs 22:2 (id: 176791)

**What do the rich and poor have in common?**

Yahweh is the maker of both the rich and poor.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 22:2

## Proverbs 22:4 (id: 176792)

**For what is the reward riches, honor, and life?**

For humility and fear of Yahweh the reward is riches, honor, and life.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 22:4

## Proverbs 22:6 (id: 176793)

**If a child is taught the way he should go, what will he not do when he grows old?**

If a child is taught the way he should go, he will not turn away from that instruction when he grows old.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 22:6

## Proverbs 22:7 (id: 176794)

**What is the relationship between the one who borrows and the one who lends?**

The one who borrows is a slave to the one who lends.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 22:7

## Proverbs 22:10 (id: 176795)

**What will cease if the mocker is driven away?**

Strife, disputes, and insults will cease if the mocker is driven away.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 22:10

## Proverbs 22:13 (id: 176796)

**What excuse does a lazy person use?**

A lazy person says there is a lion in the streets as an excuse.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 22:13

## Proverbs 22:14 (id: 176797)

**What do those who fall for an adulteress stir up?**

Those who fall for an adulteress stir up Yahweh’s anger against them.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 22:14

## Proverbs 22:15 (id: 176798)

**What drives foolishness from a child?**

The rod of discipline drives foolishness from a child.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 22:15

## Proverbs 22:19 (id: 176799)

**In whom should a person trust?**

A person should trust in Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 22:19

## Proverbs 22:22 (id: 176800)

**What must not be done to the poor and needy?**

The poor and needy must not be robbed or crushed.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 22:22

## Proverbs 22:23 (id: 176801)

**What will Yahweh do to those who rob the poor?**

Yahweh will rob the life of those who rob the poor.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 22:23

## Proverbs 22:25 (id: 176802)

**Why must a person not make a friend of someone ruled by anger?**

A person must not make a friend of someone ruled by anger because the person will learn his ways and be entangled in a snare.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 22:25

## Proverbs 22:27 (id: 176803)

**What could a person lose if they cannot pay their debts?**

A person could lose their bed if they cannot pay their debts.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 22:27

## Proverbs 22:28 (id: 176804)

**What must not be removed?**

The ancient boundary stone set by the fathers must not be removed.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 22:28

## Proverbs 23:1 (id: 176805)

**When should a person observe carefully what is before him?**

When a person sits to eat with a ruler, he should carefully observe what is before him.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 23:1

## Proverbs 23:4 (id: 176806)

**A wise person knows when to stop doing what?**

A wise person knows when to stop working too hard to try to become rich.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 23:4

## Proverbs 23:5 (id: 176807)

**What happens when a person lights his eyes upon money?**

When a person lights his eyes upon money, it is gone.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 23:5

## Proverbs 23:7 (id: 176808)

**Why is the heart of an evil man not with you when he invites you to eat and drink?**

The heart of an evil man is not with you because he counts the price of the food.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 23:7

## Proverbs 23:9 (id: 176809)

**How does a fool react to wise words?**

A fool despises wise words.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 23:9

## Proverbs 23:11 (id: 176810)

**Who will plead the cause of orphans?**

Their strong Redeemer will plead the cause of orphans.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 23:11

## Proverbs 23:13 (id: 176811)

**What should not be withheld from a child?**

Discipline should not be withheld from a child.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 23:13

## Proverbs 23:16 (id: 176812)

**What makes the inmost being of a father rejoice?**

When his son speaks what is right, the inmost being of a father rejoices.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 23:16

## Proverbs 23:20 (id: 176813)

**With whom should a person not associate?**

A person should not associate with drunkards or gluttonous eaters.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 23:20

## Proverbs 23:23 (id: 176814)

**What should a person buy?**

A person should buy truth, wisdom, discipline, and understanding.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 23:23

## Proverbs 23:26 (id: 176815)

**What should a son give to his father?**

A son should give his father his heart.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 23:26

## Proverbs 23:28 (id: 176816)

**What does another’s man’s wife increase among humanity?**

Another man’s wife increases the number of traitors among humanity.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 23:28

## Proverbs 23:29–30 (id: 176817)

**Who has woe and fights?**

The one who lingers over wine has woe and fights.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 23:29–PRO 23:30

## Proverbs 23:33 (id: 176818)

**What do the eyes of one who looks at the wine when it is red see?**

One who looks at the wine when it is red sees strange things.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 23:33

## Proverbs 23:35 (id: 176819)

**What does the drunkard say he will do when he wakes up?**

The drunkard says he will seek another drink when he wakes up.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 23:35

## Proverbs 24:1 (id: 176820)

**Of whom should a person not be envious?**

A person should not be envious of those who are evil.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 24:1

## Proverbs 24:3 (id: 176821)

**By what is a house established?**

By understanding a house is established.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 24:3

## Proverbs 24:5 (id: 176822)

**What is better than a person who is strong?**

A person who has knowledge is better than a person who is strong.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 24:5

## Proverbs 24:8 (id: 176823)

**What do people call a person who plans to do evil?**

People call a person who plans to do evil a master of schemes.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 24:8

## Proverbs 24:10 (id: 176824)

**How is a person’s strength shown to be small?**

When a person shows his cowardice in the day of trouble, he shows his strength to be small.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 24:10

## Proverbs 24:12 (id: 176825)

**What does God give each person?**

God gives each person what he deserves.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 24:12

## Proverbs 24:15 (id: 176826)

**What do the wicked lie in wait to do?**

The wicked lie in wait to attack the house of those who do right.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 24:15

## Proverbs 24:17–18 (id: 176827)

**What will Yahweh do if a person celebrates when his enemy falls?**

Yahweh will see and disapprove, and turn away his wrath from the enemy.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 24:17–PRO 24:18

## Proverbs 24:20 (id: 176828)

**What happens to the lamp of the wicked?**

The lamp of the wicked goes out.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 24:20

## Proverbs 24:21 (id: 176829)

**With whom should a person not associate?**

A person should not associate with those who rebel against the king.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 24:21

## Proverbs 24:24 (id: 176830)

**What will happen to the one who says to the guilty, “You are in the right.”?**

That person will be cursed by peoples and hated by nations.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 24:24

## Proverbs 24:26 (id: 176831)

**What is like a kiss on the lips?**

An honest answer is like a kiss on the lips.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 24:26

## Proverbs 24:29 (id: 176832)

**What should a person not say about his neighbor?**

A person should not say that he will pay back his neighbor for what he has done.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 24:29

## Proverbs 24:30–31 (id: 176833)

**What did the field of the lazy man look like?**

In the lazy man’s field, the thorns grew up, the ground had nettles, and the wall was broken down.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 24:30–PRO 24:31

## Proverbs 24:34 (id: 176834)

**What comes upon the lazy man like a robber?**

Poverty comes upon the lazy man like a robber.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 24:34

## Proverbs 25:1 (id: 176835)

**Who was the author of this proverb?**

King Solomon was the author of this proverb.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 25:1

## Proverbs 25:2 (id: 176836)

**What is it the glory of God to do?**

It is the glory of God to conceal a matter.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 25:2

## Proverbs 25:5 (id: 176837)

**How is the throne of the king established?**

By removing the wicked from the presence of the king, the throne of the king is established.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 25:5

## Proverbs 25:7 (id: 176838)

**What is better than standing in the place designated for the great?**

Waiting for the king to say to you, “Come up here,” is better than standing in the place designated for the great.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 25:7

## Proverbs 25:7–8 (id: 176839)

**If you have witnessed something concerning your neighbor, why should you not be quick to bring it to trial?**

You should not be quick to bring it to trial because your neighbor may put you to shame.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 25:7–PRO 25:8

## Proverbs 25:13 (id: 176840)

**What does a faithful messenger do for his masters?**

A faithful messenger refreshes the soul of his masters.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 25:13

## Proverbs 25:15 (id: 176841)

**With what can a ruler be persuaded?**

With patience a ruler can be persuaded.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 25:15

## Proverbs 25:17 (id: 176842)

**How could your neighbor become tired of you?**

Your neighbor could become tired of you if you set your foot in his house too often.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 25:17

## Proverbs 25:19 (id: 176843)

**What is like a foot that slips?**

An unfaithful man in whom you trust is like a foot that slips.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 25:19

## Proverbs 25:21 (id: 176844)

**What should you do for your enemy?**

You should give your enemy food to eat and water to drink.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 25:21

## Proverbs 25:22 (id: 176845)

**What will Yahweh do for the one who gives his enemy food and drink?**

Yahweh will reward the one who gives his enemy food and drink.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 25:22

## Proverbs 26:2 (id: 176846)

**What does not alight on a person?**

An undeserved curse does not alight on a person.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 26:2

## Proverbs 26:4 (id: 176847)

**What will a person become if he joins in the folly of a fool?**

A person who joins in the folly of a fool will become a fool.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 26:4

## Proverbs 26:6 (id: 176848)

**What is like cutting off one’s own feet?**

Sending a message by the hand of a fool is like cutting off one’s own feet.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 26:6

## Proverbs 26:10 (id: 176849)

**One who hires a fool is like what?**

One who hires a fool is like an archer who wounds everybody.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 26:10

## Proverbs 26:11 (id: 176850)

**Why is a fool like a dog who returns to his vomit?**

A fool is like a dog who returns to his vomit because a fool repeats his folly.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 26:11

## Proverbs 26:14 (id: 176851)

**What is a door turning on its hinges like?**

A door turning on its hinges is like a lazy person upon his bed.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 26:14

## Proverbs 26:16 (id: 176852)

**How does a lazy person appear in his own eyes?**

A lazy person appears wiser than seven men with discernment in his own eyes.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 26:16

## Proverbs 26:19 (id: 176853)

**What does a person say after deceiving his neighbor?**

A person says, “Was I not telling a joke?” after deceiving his neighbor.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 26:19

## Proverbs 26:21 (id: 176854)

**What does a quarrelsome person kindle?**

A quarrelsome person kindles strife.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 26:21

## Proverbs 26:24 (id: 176855)

**How does a person disguise the fact that he hates others?**

A person who hates others disguises it with his lips.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 26:24

## Proverbs 26:27 (id: 176856)

**What happens to the person who digs a pit?**

The person who digs a pit will fall into it.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 26:27

## Proverbs 26:28 (id: 176857)

**What does a flattering mouth bring about?**

A flattering mouth brings about ruin.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 26:28

## Proverbs 27:1 (id: 176858)

**Why should a person not boast about tomorrow?**

A person should not boast about tomorrow because he does not know what a day may bring.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 27:1

## Proverbs 27:3 (id: 176859)

**What is heavier than the weight of sand?**

The provocation of a fool is heavier than the weight of sand.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 27:3

## Proverbs 27:6 (id: 176860)

**What may an enemy do to deceive you?**

An enemy may kiss you profusely to deceive you.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 27:6

## Proverbs 27:7 (id: 176861)

**To whom is every bitter thing sweet?**

To the hungry person, every bitter thing is sweet.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 27:7

## Proverbs 27:10 (id: 176862)

**What is better than a brother who is far away?**

A neighbor is better than a brother who is far away.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 27:10

## Proverbs 27:12 (id: 176863)

**What does a prudent man do when he sees trouble?**

A prudent man hides himself when he sees trouble.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 27:12

## Proverbs 27:14 (id: 176864)

**When is a blessing given with a loud voice considered to be a curse?**

Early in the morning, a blessing given with a loud voice is considered to be a curse.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 27:14

## Proverbs 27:15–16 (id: 176865)

**What is like restraining the wind?**

Restraining a quarreling wife is like restraining the wind.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 27:15–PRO 27:16

## Proverbs 27:17 (id: 176866)

**What is like iron which sharpens iron?**

A man who sharpens his friend is like iron which sharpens iron.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 27:17

## Proverbs 27:20 (id: 176867)

**What are never satisfied, just like Abaddon?**

A man’s eyes are never satisfied, just like Abaddon.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 27:20

## Proverbs 27:22 (id: 176868)

**Even what will not remove foolishness from a fool?**

Even crushing a fool will not remove foolishness from a fool.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 27:22

## Proverbs 27:24 (id: 176869)

**How long does wealth last?**

Wealth does not last forever.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 27:24

## Proverbs 27:26 (id: 176870)

**What do lambs provide for a household?**

Lambs provide clothing for a household.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 27:26

## Proverbs 28:1 (id: 176871)

**Who runs away even when no one is chasing them?**

The wicked run away even when no one is chasing them.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 28:1

## Proverbs 28:4 (id: 176872)

**Who are praised by those who forsake the law?**

The wicked are praised by those who forsake the law.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 28:4

## Proverbs 28:6 (id: 176873)

**Which is more important, money or integrity?**

Integrity is more important than money.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 28:6

## Proverbs 28:8 (id: 176874)

**What happens to the wealth of someone who becomes rich by charging too much interest?**

His wealth is given to another who will have pity on the poor.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 28:8

## Proverbs 28:10 (id: 176875)

**Who will fall into his own pit?**

A person who misleads the upright into an evil way will fall into his own pit.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 28:10

## Proverbs 28:12 (id: 176876)

**How do the people react when the wicked arise?**

The people hide themselves when the wicked arise.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 28:12

## Proverbs 28:13 (id: 176877)

**How can a sinner receive mercy?**

A sinner who confesses and forsakes his sin will receive mercy.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 28:13

## Proverbs 28:16 (id: 176878)

**How can a ruler’s days be prolonged?**

A ruler can prolong his days if he hates dishonesty.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 28:16

## Proverbs 28:17 (id: 176879)

**What can make a person a fugitive until death?**

Shedding someone’s blood can make a person a fugitive until death.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 28:17

## Proverbs 28:19 (id: 176880)

**How can a person have plenty of poverty?**

If a person follows worthless pursuits, he will have plenty of poverty.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 28:19

## Proverbs 28:22 (id: 176881)

**How does a stingy man pursue riches?**

A stingy man hurries after riches.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 28:22

## Proverbs 28:25 (id: 176882)

**What is the result of trusting in Yahweh?**

The one who trusts in Yahweh will prosper.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 28:25

## Proverbs 28:27 (id: 176883)

**What will a person who closes his eyes to the poor receive?**

A person who closes his eyes to the poor will receive many curses.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 28:27

## Proverbs 29:1 (id: 176884)

**What happens to a person who stiffens his neck after many rebukes?**

A person who stiffens his neck after many rebukes will be broken beyond healing.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 29:1

## Proverbs 29:3 (id: 176885)

**What destroys a person’s wealth?**

Keeping company with prostitutes destroys a person’s wealth.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 29:3

## Proverbs 29:6 (id: 176886)

**What causes an evil person to be caught in a trap?**

His own sin causes an evil person to be caught in a trap.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 29:6

## Proverbs 29:8 (id: 176887)

**What kind of person turns away wrath?**

A wise person turns away wrath.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 29:8

## Proverbs 29:10 (id: 176888)

**Who do the bloodthirsty seek to kill?**

The bloodthirsty seek to kill the upright.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 29:10

## Proverbs 29:11 (id: 176889)

**What does a wise man do with his anger?**

A wise man holds back his anger and calms himself down.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 29:11

## Proverbs 29:14 (id: 176890)

**How can a king establish his throne forever?**

A king can establish his throne forever by judging the poor by the truth.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 29:14

## Proverbs 29:17 (id: 176891)

**What is the result of disciplining a child?**

A disciplined child will give the parents rest.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 29:17

## Proverbs 29:18 (id: 176892)

**If the people do not keep the law, what do they do?**

If the people do not keep the law, they run wild.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 29:18

## Proverbs 29:20 (id: 176893)

**What is worse than being a fool?**

Being a man who is hasty in his words is worse than being a fool.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 29:20

## Proverbs 29:23 (id: 176894)

**What kind of person is given honor?**

A person with a humble spirit is given honor.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 29:23

## Proverbs 29:25 (id: 176895)

**What does Yahweh do for the one who trusts in him?**

Yahweh protects the one who trusts in him.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 29:25

## Proverbs 29:27 (id: 176896)

**Who is an abomination to those who do right?**

An unjust man is an abomination to those who do right.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 29:27

## Proverbs 30:1 (id: 176897)

**Whose sayings are written in this proverb?**

The sayings of Agur the son of Jakeh are written in this proverb.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 30:1

## Proverbs 30:3 (id: 176898)

**What has the author not learned?**

The author has not learned wisdom.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 30:3

## Proverbs 30:6 (id: 176899)

**What will happen to someone who adds to God’s words?**

God will rebuke someone who adds to God’s words.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 30:6

## Proverbs 30:8 (id: 176900)

**How wealthy does the author wish to be?**

The author wishes to have neither poverty nor riches.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 30:8

## Proverbs 30:9 (id: 176901)

**What is the author afraid he would do if he were rich?**

The author is afraid he would deny Yahweh if he were rich.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 30:9

## Proverbs 30:11–12 (id: 176902)

**Who is not washed of their filth?**

A generation that curses their father and does not bless their mother is not washed of their filth.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 30:11–PRO 30:12

## Proverbs 30:14 (id: 176903)

**What does the haughty generation do to the poor?**

The haughty generation devours the poor.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 30:14

## Proverbs 30:15–16 (id: 176904)

**What are four things that never say “enough”?**

Four things that never say “enough” are sheol, the barren womb, land thirsty for water, and fire.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 30:15–PRO 30:16

## Proverbs 30:19 (id: 176905)

**What is the second thing that the author does not understand because it is too wonderful?**

The author does not understand the way of a snake on a rock.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 30:19

## Proverbs 30:22 (id: 176906)

**What is the first thing that the author says causes the earth to tremble?**

The first thing that causes the earth to tremble is a slave when he becomes king.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 30:22

## Proverbs 30:27 (id: 176907)

**What does the author find amazing about locusts?**

The author finds locusts amazing because they have no king, but all of them march in rank.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 30:27

## Proverbs 30:30 (id: 176908)

**What does not turn away from anything?**

The lion does not turn away from anything.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 30:30

## Proverbs 30:32 (id: 176909)

**What should a person do who has been devising evil?**

A person who has been devising evil should put his hand over his mouth.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 30:32

## Proverbs 30:33 (id: 176910)

**What does anger produce?**

Anger produces conflict.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 30:33

## Proverbs 31:1 (id: 176911)

**Who wrote this proverb?**

King Lemuel wrote this proverb.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 31:1

## Proverbs 31:3 (id: 176912)

**To whom should the king not give his ways?**

He should not give his ways to those who destroy kings.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 31:3

## Proverbs 31:5 (id: 176913)

**What do rulers forget when they have strong drink?**

Rulers forget what has been decreed when they have strong drink.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 31:5

## Proverbs 31:7 (id: 176914)

**What do those in bitter distress forget when they have strong drink?**

Those in bitter distress forget their trouble when they have strong drink.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 31:7

## Proverbs 31:9 (id: 176915)

**Whose cause should the king plead?**

The king should please the cause of the poor and needy.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 31:9

## Proverbs 31:10 (id: 176916)

**What is more valuable than jewels?**

A capable wife is more valuable than jewels.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 31:10

## Proverbs 31:12 (id: 176917)

**What does the capable wife do all the days of her life?**

She does good for her husband and not evil all the days of her life.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 31:12

## Proverbs 31:15 (id: 176918)

**When does the capable wife arise?**

She arises while it is night.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 31:15

## Proverbs 31:17 (id: 176919)

**With what does the capable wife dress herself?**

She dresses herself with strength.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 31:17

## Proverbs 31:20 (id: 176920)

**To whom does the capable wife reach out?**

She reaches out to the poor and needy.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 31:20

## Proverbs 31:23 (id: 176921)

**Where does the capable wife’s husband sit?**

Her husband sits with the elders at the gates.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 31:23

## Proverbs 31:26 (id: 176922)

**What is on the capable wife’s tongue?**

The law of kindness is on the capable wife’s tongue.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 31:26

## Proverbs 31:28 (id: 176923)

**What do the children of the capable wife call her?**

Her children call her blessed.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 31:28

## Proverbs 31:30 (id: 176924)

**What kind of woman will be praised?**

A woman who fears Yahweh will be praised.

* **Associated Passages:** PRO 31:30

