# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Ecclesiastes 1:1 (id: 168491)

**Of whom was the Teacher a descendant?**

The Teacher was a descendant of David, king in Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 1:1

## Ecclesiastes 1:4 (id: 168492)

**What remains forever?**

The earth remains forever.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 1:4

## Ecclesiastes 1:8 (id: 168493)

**By what is the eye not satisfied?**

The eye is not satisfied by what it sees.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 1:8

## Ecclesiastes 1:9 (id: 168494)

**What will be done?**

Whatever has been done is what will be done.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 1:9

## Ecclesiastes 1:13 (id: 168495)

**To what did the Teacher apply his mind?**

The Teacher applied his mind to study and to search out by wisdom everything that is done under heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 1:13

## Ecclesiastes 1:14 (id: 168496)

**To what do all the deeds that are done under the sun amount?**

All the deeds that are done under the sun amount to vapor and an attempt to shepherd the wind.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 1:14

## Ecclesiastes 1:18 (id: 168497)

**Where is there much frustration?**

In the abundance of wisdom there is much frustration.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 1:18

## Ecclesiastes 2:1 (id: 168498)

**What was just a temporary breeze?**

Pleasure was just a temporary breeze.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 2:1

## Ecclesiastes 2:3 (id: 168499)

**What did the Teacher want to find out?**

The Teacher wanted to find out what was good for people to do under heaven during the days of their lives.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 2:3

## Ecclesiastes 2:6 (id: 168500)

**Why did the Teacher create pools of water?**

The Teacher created pools of water to water a forest where trees were grown.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 2:6

## Ecclesiastes 2:8 (id: 168501)

**How did the Teacher do things that would bring pleasure to any man on earth?**

By means of numerous wives and concubines, he did things that would bring pleasure to any man on earth.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 2:8

## Ecclesiastes 2:10 (id: 168502)

**In what did the Teacher’s heart rejoice?**

The Teacher’s heart rejoiced in all his labor.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 2:10

## Ecclesiastes 2:11 (id: 168503)

**Where was there no profit?**

There was no profit under the sun.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 2:11

## Ecclesiastes 2:14 (id: 168504)

**What is in store for everyone?**

The same destiny is in store for everyone.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 2:14

## Ecclesiastes 2:16 (id: 168505)

**Who is not remembered for very long?**

The wise man, like the fool, is not remembered for very long.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 2:16

## Ecclesiastes 2:18 (id: 168506)

**Why did the Teacher hate all his accomplishments?**

The Teacher hated all his accomplishments because he had to leave them behind to the man who came after him.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 2:18

## Ecclesiastes 2:20 (id: 168507)

**How did the Teacher’s heart feel about his work?**

The Teacher’s heart began to despair over all the work that he did.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 2:20

## Ecclesiastes 2:23 (id: 168508)

**Why does the soul of the hard worker not find rest at night?**

Every day his work is painful and stressful, so at night his soul does not find rest.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 2:23

## Ecclesiastes 2:24 (id: 168509)

**What is there nothing better than for anyone?**

There is nothing better for anyone than to simply eat and drink and be satisfied with what is good in his work.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 2:24

## Ecclesiastes 2:26 (id: 168510)

**What does God give to the sinner?**

To the sinner, God gives the work of gathering and storing up so that he may give it away to someone who pleases God.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 2:26

## Ecclesiastes 3:1 (id: 168511)

**For what things is there a season?**

There is a season for every purpose under heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 3:1

## Ecclesiastes 3:10 (id: 168512)

**What did the Teacher see?**

The Teacher saw the work that God gave to human beings to complete.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 3:10

## Ecclesiastes 3:11 (id: 168513)

**What did God place in people’s hearts?**

God placed eternity in their hearts.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 3:11

## Ecclesiastes 3:13 (id: 168514)

**What is a gift from God?**

The good that comes from one’s work is a gift from God.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 3:13

## Ecclesiastes 3:14 (id: 168515)

**Why can nothing be added to or taken away from whatever God does?**

Nothing can be added to it or taken away from it, because it is God who has done it.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 3:14

## Ecclesiastes 3:16 (id: 168516)

**What is often found in place of righteousness?**

In place of righteousness wickedness is often found.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 3:16

## Ecclesiastes 3:19–20 (id: 168517)

**How are people like animals?**

Like animals, people all die. They all must breathe the same air. Everything comes from the dust, and everything returns to the dust.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 3:19–ECC 3:20

## Ecclesiastes 3:22 (id: 168518)

**What is the assignment for each person?**

The assignment for each person is to take pleasure in his work.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 3:22

## Ecclesiastes 4:1 (id: 168519)

**For what is there no comforter?**

There is no comforter for the tears of the oppressed.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 4:1

## Ecclesiastes 4:3 (id: 168520)

**Who is more fortunate than both the living and the dead?**

More fortunate than both the living and the dead is the one who has not yet lived.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 4:3

## Ecclesiastes 4:6 (id: 168521)

**What is better than two handfuls with the work that tries to shepherd the wind?**

Better is a handful of profit with quiet work than two handfuls with the work that tries to shepherd the wind.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 4:6

## Ecclesiastes 4:9–10 (id: 168522)

**Why are two people better than one in the case that one falls?**

Two people are better than one because if one falls, the other can lift up his friend.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 4:9–ECC 4:10

## Ecclesiastes 4:12 (id: 168523)

**What is not quickly broken?**

A three\-strand rope is not quickly broken.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 4:12

## Ecclesiastes 4:13 (id: 168524)

**What is better than to be an old and foolish king?**

It is better to be a poor but wise youth than an old and foolish king.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 4:13

## Ecclesiastes 4:16 (id: 168525)

**What do people want to do to the new king?**

People want to obey the new king.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 4:16

## Ecclesiastes 5:1 (id: 168526)

**Why should people go to the house of God?**

People should go to the house of God to listen.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 5:1

## Ecclesiastes 5:2 (id: 168527)

**Why should people let their words be few?**

God is in heaven, but people are on earth, so they should let their words be few.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 5:2

## Ecclesiastes 5:5 (id: 168528)

**What is better for a person to do than to make a vow that he does not carry out?**

It is better for a person not to make a vow than to make a vow that he does not carry out.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 5:5

## Ecclesiastes 5:8 (id: 168529)

**When someone sees the poor being oppressed and robbed of just and right treatment, why should no one be astonished as if no one knows?**

When someone sees the poor being oppressed and robbed of just and right treatment, he should not be astonished because there are men in power who watch those under them, and there are even higher ones over them.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 5:8

## Ecclesiastes 5:11 (id: 168530)

**What happens as prosperity increases?**

As prosperity increases, so also do the people who consume it.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 5:11

## Ecclesiastes 5:12 (id: 168531)

**What does not allow a rich person to sleep well?**

The wealth of a rich person does not allow him to sleep well.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 5:12

## Ecclesiastes 5:14 (id: 168532)

**What happens when the rich man loses his wealth through bad luck?**

When the rich man loses his wealth through bad luck, his own son, one whom he has fathered, is left with nothing in his hands.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 5:14

## Ecclesiastes 5:15 (id: 168533)

**How is a man born and how will he leave this life?**

A man is born naked from his mother’s womb, so also he will leave this life naked.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 5:15

## Ecclesiastes 5:20 (id: 168534)

**Why does a person not call to mind very often the days of his life?**

A person does not call to mind very often the days of his life, because God makes him keep busy with the things that he enjoys doing.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 5:20

## Ecclesiastes 6:1–2 (id: 168535)

**What evil did the Teacher see?**

The Teacher saw that God might give riches, wealth, and honor to a man so that he lacks nothing that he desires for himself, but then God gives him no ability to enjoy it. Instead, someone else uses his things.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 6:1–ECC 6:2

## Ecclesiastes 6:3 (id: 168536)

**If a man’s heart is not satisfied with good and he is not buried with honor, who is better off than he is?**

If a man’s heart is not satisfied with good and he is not buried with honor, then a baby that is born dead is better off than he is.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 6:3

## Ecclesiastes 6:6 (id: 168537)

**Even if a man should live for two thousand years but does not learn to enjoy good things, where does he go?**

Even if a man should live for two thousand years but does not learn to enjoy good things, he goes to the same place as everyone else.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 6:6

## Ecclesiastes 6:7 (id: 168538)

**Though all a man’s work is to fill his mouth, what happens?**

Though all a man’s work is to fill his mouth, yet his appetite is not filled.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 6:7

## Ecclesiastes 6:11 (id: 168539)

**What happens the more words that are spoken?**

The more words that are spoken, the more futility increases.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 6:11

## Ecclesiastes 7:2 (id: 168540)

**Why is it better to go to a house of mourning than to a house of feasting?**

It is better to go to a house of mourning than to a house of feasting, for mourning comes to all people at the end of life.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 7:2

## Ecclesiastes 7:4 (id: 168541)

**Where is the heart of the wise?**

The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 7:4

## Ecclesiastes 7:6 (id: 168542)

**What is the laughter of fools like?**

Like the crackling of thorns burning under a pot, so also is the laughter of fools.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 7:6

## Ecclesiastes 7:7 (id: 168543)

**What makes a wise man foolish?**

Extortion makes a wise man foolish.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 7:7

## Ecclesiastes 7:9 (id: 168544)

**Why should people not be quick to anger in their spirit?**

People should not be quick to anger in their spirit, for anger resides in the hearts of fools.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 7:9

## Ecclesiastes 7:12 (id: 168545)

**How is wisdom better than money?**

Wisdom provides protection as money can provide protection, but the advantage of knowledge is that wisdom gives life to whoever has it.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 7:12

## Ecclesiastes 7:14 (id: 168546)

**When times are good, how should people live?**

When times are good, people should live happily in that good.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 7:14

## Ecclesiastes 7:15 (id: 168547)

**What happened to wicked people whom the Teacher saw?**

The Teacher saw wicked people who live a long life in spite of their evil.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 7:15

## Ecclesiastes 7:18 (id: 168548)

**What will happen for the person who fears God?**

The person who fears God will meet all his obligations.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 7:18

## Ecclesiastes 7:21 (id: 168549)

**Why should people not listen to every word that is spoken?**

People should not listen to every word that is spoken because they might hear their servant curse them.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 7:21

## Ecclesiastes 7:24 (id: 168550)

**Where is wisdom?**

Wisdom is far off.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 7:24

## Ecclesiastes 7:26 (id: 168551)

**By whom will the sinner be taken?**

The sinner will be taken by a woman whose heart is full of snares and nets, and whose hands are chains.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 7:26

## Ecclesiastes 7:28 (id: 168552)

**Although the Teacher found one righteous man among a thousand, what did he not find?**

Although the Teacher found one righteous man among a thousand, a woman among all those he did not find.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 7:28

## Ecclesiastes 8:1 (id: 168553)

**What is a wise man?**

A wise man is someone who knows what the events in life mean.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 8:1

## Ecclesiastes 8:3 (id: 168554)

**Why should people not hurry out of the king’s presence, and should not stand in support of something wrong?**

People should not hurry out of the king’s presence, and should not stand in support of something wrong, for the king does whatever he desires.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 8:3

## Ecclesiastes 8:5 (id: 168555)

**Who avoids harm?**

Whoever keeps the king’s commands avoids harm.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 8:5

## Ecclesiastes 8:8 (id: 168556)

**Over what does no one have power?**

No one has power over the breath of life to stop breathing, and no one has power over the day of his death.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 8:8

## Ecclesiastes 8:10 (id: 168557)

**By whom were the wicked praised?**

The wicked were praised by people in the city where they had done their wicked deeds.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 8:10

## Ecclesiastes 8:12 (id: 168558)

**Even if a sinner does evil a hundred times and still lives for a long time, what will happen to those who respect God?**

Even if a sinner does evil a hundred times and still lives for a long time, it will be well with those who respect God, who honor his presence with them.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 8:12

## Ecclesiastes 8:15 (id: 168559)

**Why does the Teacher recommend happiness?**

The Teacher recommends happiness, because a man has no better thing under the sun than to eat and drink and to be happy.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 8:15

## Ecclesiastes 8:17 (id: 168560)

**What can man not understand?**

Man cannot understand the work that is done under the sun.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 8:17

## Ecclesiastes 9:1 (id: 168561)

**Who is in God’s hands?**

The righteous and wise people are all in God’s hands.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 9:1

## Ecclesiastes 9:2 (id: 168562)

**What is the same for everyone?**

Everyone has the same fate.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 9:2

## Ecclesiastes 9:3 (id: 168563)

**Of what are the hearts of human beings full?**

The hearts of human beings are full of evil.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 9:3

## Ecclesiastes 9:5 (id: 168564)

**Why do the dead no longer have any reward?**

They no longer have any reward because their memory is forgotten.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 9:5

## Ecclesiastes 9:6 (id: 168565)

**What vanished long ago?**

The dead people’s love, hatred, and envy vanished long ago.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 9:6

## Ecclesiastes 9:10 (id: 168566)

**What should people do with whatever their hand finds to do?**

Whatever their hand finds to do, they should work at it with their strength.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 9:10

## Ecclesiastes 9:12 (id: 168567)

**In what are human beings imprisoned?**

Human beings are imprisoned in evil times that suddenly fall on them.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 9:12

## Ecclesiastes 9:15 (id: 168568)

**What happened to the poor, wise man, who by his wisdom saved the city?**

No one remembered the poor, wise man, who by his wisdom saved the city.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 9:15

## Ecclesiastes 9:18 (id: 168569)

**What is better than weapons of war?**

Wisdom is better than weapons of war.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 9:18

## Ecclesiastes 10:3 (id: 168570)

**What proves to everyone that a man is a fool?**

When a man’s thinking is deficient, this proves to everyone that he is a fool.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 10:3

## Ecclesiastes 10:7 (id: 168571)

**What did the Teacher see slaves doing?**

The Teacher saw slaves riding horses.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 10:7

## Ecclesiastes 10:8 (id: 168572)

**What can happen whenever someone breaks down a wall?**

Whenever someone breaks down a wall, a snake can bite him.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 10:8

## Ecclesiastes 10:10 (id: 168573)

**What happens if a man does not sharpen a dull iron blade?**

If a man does not sharpen a dull iron blade, then he must use more strength.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 10:10

## Ecclesiastes 10:13 (id: 168574)

**At the end, with what does a fool’s mouth flow?**

At the end, a fool’s mouth flows with wicked madness.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 10:13

## Ecclesiastes 10:16 (id: 168575)

**When is there trouble in the land?**

There is trouble in the land if the king is young, and the leaders begin feasting in the morning!

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 10:16

## Ecclesiastes 10:18 (id: 168576)

**Why does the house leak?**

Because of idle hands the house leaks.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 10:18

## Ecclesiastes 10:20 (id: 168577)

**Why should people not curse the king?**

People should not curse the king, for a bird of the sky might carry their words.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 10:20

## Ecclesiastes 11:2 (id: 168578)

**Why should people share bread with seven, even eight people?**

People should share it with seven, even eight people, for they do not know what disasters are coming on the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 11:2

## Ecclesiastes 11:5 (id: 168579)

**What can people not comprehend?**

People cannot comprehend the work of God.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 11:5

## Ecclesiastes 11:6 (id: 168580)

**For how long should people plant seed?**

People should plant seed in the morning until the evening.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 11:6

## Ecclesiastes 11:10 (id: 168581)

**What should people drive away from their heart?**

People should drive anger away from their heart.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 11:10

## Ecclesiastes 12:1 (id: 168582)

**When should people call to mind their Creator?**

People should call to mind their Creator in the days of their youth.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 12:1

## Ecclesiastes 12:3 (id: 168583)

**Why will women who grind cease?**

The women who grind will cease because they are few.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 12:3

## Ecclesiastes 12:4 (id: 168584)

**At what will men be startled?**

Men will be startled at the voice of a bird.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 12:4

## Ecclesiastes 12:7 (id: 168585)

**Where will the dust return?**

The dust will return to the earth from where it came.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 12:7

## Ecclesiastes 12:9 (id: 168586)

**What did the Teacher teach people?**

The Teacher taught the people knowledge.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 12:9

## Ecclesiastes 12:11 (id: 168587)

**Like what are the words of the wise?**

The words of the wise are like goads.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 12:11

## Ecclesiastes 12:12 (id: 168588)

**What does much study bring?**

Much study brings weariness to the body.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 12:12

## Ecclesiastes 12:13 (id: 168589)

**What is the end of the matter?**

The end of the matter is that people must fear God and keep his commandments.

* **Associated Passages:** ECC 12:13

