# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Song of Solomon 1:1 (id: 179110)

**Who is the writer of Song of Songs?**

Solomon is the writer of Song of Songs.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:1

## Song of Solomon 1:2 (id: 179111)

**What does the young woman ask her lover to do?**

The young woman asks her lover to kiss her with the kisses of his mouth.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:2

## Song of Solomon 1:2 (#2) (id: 179112)

**What does the young woman say is better than wine?**

The young woman says her lover’s love is better than wine.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:2

## Song of Solomon 1:3 (id: 179113)

**What does the young woman say her lover’s name is like?**

The young woman says his name is like flowing perfume.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:3

## Song of Solomon 1:4 (id: 179114)

**Where has the king brought the young woman?**

The king has brought the young woman into his rooms.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:4

## Song of Solomon 1:5 (id: 179115)

**How does the young woman describe her skin?**

The young woman describes her skin as dark but lovely like tents of Kedar, like curtains of Solomon.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:5

## Song of Solomon 1:6 (id: 179116)

**Why does she not want the other women to stare at her?**

She does not want the other women to stare at her because her skin is scorched.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:6

## Song of Solomon 1:6 (#2) (id: 179117)

**What did the young woman’s brothers do when they were angry with her?**

The young woman’s brothers made her a keeper of the vineyards.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:6

## Song of Solomon 1:7 (id: 179118)

**What does the woman ask her lover?**

She asks him where he feeds his flock and where he rests his flock at noontime.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:7

## Song of Solomon 1:8 (id: 179119)

**How does her lover say the young woman can find him?**

He tells her to follow the tracks of his flock to the shepherds’ tents.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:8

## Song of Solomon 1:9 (id: 179120)

**To what does the young woman’s lover compare her?**

He compares her to a mare among Pharaoh’s chariots.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:9

## Song of Solomon 1:10 (id: 179121)

**What does her lover say is on her cheeks and neck?**

He says ornaments are on her cheeks and strings of jewels are on her neck.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:10

## Song of Solomon 1:11 (id: 179122)

**What does her lover say he will make for her?**

He says he will make for her gold ornaments with silver studs.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:11

## Song of Solomon 1:12 (id: 179123)

**Where was the king lying while the woman's perfume spread in the room?**

The king was lying on his couch while the fragrance of the woman's perfume spread.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:12

## Song of Solomon 1:13 (id: 179124)

**Where does her beloved spend the night?**

Her beloved spends the night lying between her breasts.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:13

## Song of Solomon 1:14 (id: 179125)

**To what does the young woman liken her beloved?**

Her beloved is like a cluster of henna flowers in the vineyards of En Gedi.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:14

## Song of Solomon 1:15 (id: 179126)

**How does her lover describe her eyes?**

He says her eyes are like doves.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:15

## Song of Solomon 1:16 (id: 179127)

**What does the woman say serves as their bed?**

Lush plants serve as their bed.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:16

## Song of Solomon 1:17 (id: 179128)

**Of what does the woman say the beams and rafters are made?**

The beams and rafters are made of cedar and pine trees.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 1:17

## Song of Solomon 2:1 (id: 179129)

**How did the woman describe herself?**

She described herself as a flower of the plain, a lily of the valleys.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:1

## Song of Solomon 2:2 (id: 179130)

**What does the man say she was like among the daughters of his countrymen?**

He said she was like a lily among thorns.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:2

## Song of Solomon 2:3 (id: 179131)

**How did the woman describe her beloved among the young men?**

The woman described her young man as the apple tree among the trees of the forest.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:3

## Song of Solomon 2:3 (#2) (id: 179132)

**Where did the woman sit?**

She sat down under his shadow with great delight.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:3

## Song of Solomon 2:3 (#3) (id: 179133)

**What was sweet to her taste?**

His fruit was sweet to her taste.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:3

## Song of Solomon 2:4 (id: 179134)

**Where did her young man bring her?**

Her young man brought her to the house of wine.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:4

## Song of Solomon 2:4 (#2) (id: 179135)

**What was his banner over her?**

His banner over her was love.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:4

## Song of Solomon 2:5 (id: 179136)

**What did the young woman want to sustain and refresh herself?**

The young woman wanted raisin cakes to sustain her and apples to refresh her.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:5

## Song of Solomon 2:6 (id: 179137)

**Where were the young man’s left and right hands?**

His left hand was under her head and his right hand embraces her.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:6

## Song of Solomon 2:7 (id: 179138)

**What did the young woman want the daughters of Jerusalem to avoid?**

The young woman wanted the young women avoid awakening love before the right time comes.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:7

## Song of Solomon 2:8 (id: 179139)

**What sound did the young woman hear?**

The young woman heard the voice of her beloved.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:8

## Song of Solomon 2:8 (#2) (id: 179140)

**What did she say her beloved was doing?**

He was leaping over the mountains and jumping over the hills.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:8

## Song of Solomon 2:9 (id: 179141)

**What did she say her beloved was like?**

She said her beloved was like a gazelle or a young stag.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:9

## Song of Solomon 2:10 (id: 179142)

**What did her beloved want her to do with him?**

He wanted her to get up and walk with him.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:10

## Song of Solomon 2:11 (id: 179143)

**What did he say was past, and what was over and gone?**

He said he winter was past and the rain was over and gone.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:11

## Song of Solomon 2:12 (id: 179144)

**What had appeared in the land?**

Flowers had appeared in the land.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:12

## Song of Solomon 2:12 (#2) (id: 179145)

**For what was it time?**

It was time for pruning and hearing the birds sing.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:12

## Song of Solomon 2:13 (id: 179146)

**What ripens and was in blossom?**

The green figs ripens and the vines were in blossom.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:13

## Song of Solomon 2:13 (#2) (id: 179147)

**What did her beloved want his beautiful one to do?**

He wanted her to arise and come away.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:13

## Song of Solomon 2:14 (id: 179148)

**What does her beloved call her?**

Her beloved calls her his dove.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:14

## Song of Solomon 2:14 (#2) (id: 179149)

**What does her beloved want to see and hear?**

Her beloved wanted to see her lovely face and hear her sweet voice.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:14

## Song of Solomon 2:15 (id: 179150)

**What did the woman want him to catch?**

The woman wanted him to catch the foxes that ruin vineyards.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:15

## Song of Solomon 2:16 (id: 179151)

**To whom did the woman’s beloved belong?**

Her beloved belonged to her.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:16

## Song of Solomon 2:16 (#2) (id: 179152)

**To whom did the woman belong?**

She belonged to her beloved.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:16

## Song of Solomon 2:16 (#3) (id: 179153)

**What did her beloved do among the lilies?**

He grazed among the lilies with pleasure.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:16

## Song of Solomon 2:17 (id: 179154)

**What did she want her beloved to do?**

She wanted her beloved to go away.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:17

## Song of Solomon 2:17 (#2) (id: 179155)

**When did she want her beloved to go away?**

She wanted her beloved to go away before the soft winds of dawn blew and the shadows fled away.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:17

## Song of Solomon 2:17 (#3) (id: 179156)

**What did she want him to be like?**

She wanted him to like a gazelle or a young stag on the rugged mountains.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 2:17

## Song of Solomon 3:1 (id: 179157)

**For whom was the woman longing but could not find?**

The woman was longing for the one whom she loved, but she could not find him.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 3:1

## Song of Solomon 3:2 (id: 179158)

**For whom did the woman search through the streets and squares but not find?**

The woman searched through the streets and squares, but she could not find her beloved.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 3:2

## Song of Solomon 3:3 (id: 179159)

**What did the woman ask the watchmen when they found her?**

She asked them, “Have you seen my beloved?”

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 3:3

## Song of Solomon 3:4 (id: 179160)

**When did she find the one whom her soul loved?**

She found the one whom her soul loved just after she passed the watchmen in the city.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 3:4

## Song of Solomon 3:4 (#2) (id: 179161)

**What did she do with her beloved?**

She held him and would not let him go until she had brought him into her mother’s house.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 3:4

## Song of Solomon 3:5 (id: 179162)

**What did the woman want the daughters of Jerusalem’s men to promise?**

The woman wanted the daughters of Jerusalem promise they would not awaken or stir love before the right time.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 3:5

## Song of Solomon 3:6–7 (id: 179163)

**What did the young woman see coming from the wilderness that was perfumed with myrrh and frankincense and powders?**

She saw the portable litter of Solomon coming with 60 warriors around it.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 3:6–SNG 3:7

## Song of Solomon 3:8 (id: 179164)

**At what were the warriors good?**

The warriors were good with the sword and in warfare.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 3:8

## Song of Solomon 3:9 (id: 179165)

**What did King Solomon make for himself?**

King Solomon made a sedan chair from wood from Lebanon.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 3:9

## Song of Solomon 3:10 (id: 179166)

**What did King Solomon’s sedan chair look like?**

The chair had posts of silver, a back of gold, a seat of purple cloth, and was decorated and made comfortable with love.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 3:10

## Song of Solomon 3:11 (id: 179167)

**At what did the young woman want the women of Jerusalem to look?**

She wanted them to look at King Solomon.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 3:11

## Song of Solomon 3:11 (#2) (id: 179168)

**What was King Solomon wearing on his marriage day?**

He wore a crown with which his mother crowned him on his marriage day.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 3:11

## Song of Solomon 4:1 (id: 179169)

**How did the woman’s lover describe her eyes?**

Her eyes were as doves behind her veil.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:1

## Song of Solomon 4:1 (#2) (id: 179170)

**How did the woman’s lover describe her hair?**

Her hair was like a flock of goats going down Mount Gilead.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:1

## Song of Solomon 4:2 (id: 179171)

**How did her lover describe her teeth.**

Her teeth were like a flock of newly shorn and washed female sheep, two of each and none missing.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:2

## Song of Solomon 4:3 (id: 179172)

**What did the woman’s beloved say about her lips and mouth.**

He said her lips were like a thread of scarlet and that her mouth was lovely.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:3

## Song of Solomon 4:3 (#2) (id: 179173)

**How did the woman’s beloved describe her cheeks.**

He described her cheeks as being like pomegranate halves behind her veil.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:3

## Song of Solomon 4:4 (id: 179174)

**How did the woman’s beloved describe her neck?**

He described her neck as the tower of David built in rows of stone with a thousand soldiers’ shields hanging on it.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:4

## Song of Solomon 4:5 (id: 179175)

**How did the woman’s beloved describe her two breasts?**

He described her two breasts as two fawns, twins of a gazelle, grazing among the lilies.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:5

## Song of Solomon 4:6 (id: 179176)

**Where would her lover go until dawn comes and the shadows flee?**

He said he would go to the mountain of myrrh and the hill of frankincense.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:6

## Song of Solomon 4:7 (id: 179177)

**In what way was his love beautiful?**

His love was beautiful in every way.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:7

## Song of Solomon 4:7 (#2) (id: 179178)

**What did his beautiful love not have?**

His beautiful love did not have any blemish.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:7

## Song of Solomon 4:9 (id: 179179)

**What did Solomon call his bride?**

Solomon called her his sister.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:9

## Song of Solomon 4:9 (#2) (id: 179180)

**What did Solomon say the love of his wife was better than?**

Solomon said her love was better than wine.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:9

## Song of Solomon 4:10 (id: 179181)

**What was the smell of her perfume better than?**

The smell of her perfume was better than any spice.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:10

## Song of Solomon 4:11 (id: 179182)

**With what did he say his bride’s lips dripped and what was under her tongue?**

He said his bride’s lips dripped with nectar and she had honey and milk under her tongue.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:11

## Song of Solomon 4:11 (#2) (id: 179183)

**What did the woman’s clothes smell like?**

Her clothes smelled like the fragrance of Lebanon.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:11

## Song of Solomon 4:12 (id: 179184)

**What kind of garden and what kind of spring did Solomon say his sister, his bride, was like?**

Solomon said she was like a garden locked up and a spring that was sealed.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:12

## Song of Solomon 4:13–14 (id: 179185)

**To what did he liken the woman’s branches?**

He likened her branches to a grove of pomegranate trees with choice fruit and plants and all the finest spices.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:13–SNG 4:14

## Song of Solomon 4:15 (id: 179186)

**With what kinds of water does Solomon describe his lover?**

He described her as a garden spring, a well of fresh water, and streams flowing down from Lebanon.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:15

## Song of Solomon 4:16 (id: 179187)

**On what does the young woman want the north and south winds to blow and why?**

She wanted the north and south winds to blow on her garden so that its spices would give off their fragrance.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:16

## Song of Solomon 4:16 (#2) (id: 179188)

**What did she want her beloved to do and to eat?**

She wanted her beloved to come into his garden and to eat some of its choice fruit.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 4:16

## Song of Solomon 5:1 (id: 179189)

**Where had Solomon come?**

Solomon had come into his garden.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:1

## Song of Solomon 5:2 (id: 179190)

**Of what was Solomon’s bride dreaming?**

She was dreaming of her beloved’s knocking and talking.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:2

## Song of Solomon 5:3 (id: 179191)

**What had Solomon’s beloved already done?**

She had already taken off her robe and washed her feet.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:3

## Song of Solomon 5:4 (id: 179192)

**Where had Solomon put his hand?**

Solomon had put his hand through the opening of the door latch.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:4

## Song of Solomon 5:5 (id: 179193)

**With what were the bride’s hands dipping when she opened the door?**

Her hands were dripping with moist myrrh.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:5

## Song of Solomon 5:6 (id: 179194)

**What did the bride find when she opened the door and how did she feel?**

She found that her beloved had turned and gone, so her heart sank and she became sad.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:6

## Song of Solomon 5:7 (id: 179195)

**What did the watchmen do when they found Solomon’s bride?**

They struck and wounded her and took away her veil.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:7

## Song of Solomon 5:8 (id: 179196)

**What did the bride ask the women of Jerusalem to promise?**

She asked the women of Jerusalem to promise that if they found her beloved they would tell him she was lovesick for him.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:8

## Song of Solomon 5:8 (#2) (id: 179197)

**How did the young woman’s beloved make her feel?**

The young woman’s beloved made her feel sick with love.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:8

## Song of Solomon 5:9 (id: 179198)

**What did the young women ask of the bride?**

They asked her how and why her beloved is better than another beloved.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:9

## Song of Solomon 5:10 (id: 179199)

**How did the young woman describe her beloved?**

She described him as radiant, ruddy, and outstanding.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:10

## Song of Solomon 5:11 (id: 179200)

**How did the woman describe her beloved’s head and hair?**

She described his head as pure gold and his hair as curly and black.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:11

## Song of Solomon 5:12 (id: 179201)

**How did the woman describe her beloved’s eyes?**

She described his eyes like doves washed in milk.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:12

## Song of Solomon 5:13 (id: 179202)

**How did Solomon’s bride describe his cheeks and lips?**

She described his cheeks like spice gardens and his lips as myrrh soaked lilies.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:13

## Song of Solomon 5:14 (id: 179203)

**How did the woman describe her beloved’s arms and abdomen?**

She described his arms as gold with jewels and his abdomen as ivory covered with sapphires.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:14

## Song of Solomon 5:15 (id: 179204)

**How did the woman describe her beloved’s legs and his appearance?**

She described his legs as marble pillars with gold bases and his appearance like Lebanon, as special as the cedars.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:15

## Song of Solomon 5:16 (id: 179205)

**How did Solomon’s bride describe her beloved’s mouth and Solomon to Jerusalem’s daughters?**

She described his mouth as most sweet and that Solomon was most desirable.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 5:16

## Song of Solomon 6:1 (id: 179206)

**What questions do the women of Jerusalem ask of the young woman?**

They ask her where her beloved has gone and in what direction has he gone?

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:1

## Song of Solomon 6:1 (#2) (id: 179207)

**For what did the young women want to seek?**

The young women wanted to seek for the young woman’s beloved.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:1

## Song of Solomon 6:2 (id: 179208)

**What does the young woman say her beloved was doing?**

The young woman said he was in his spice gardens to graze in the garden and gather lilies.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:2

## Song of Solomon 6:3 (id: 179209)

**To whom did the young woman and her lover belong?**

The young woman and her lover belonged to each other.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:3

## Song of Solomon 6:3 (#2) (id: 179210)

**Where did the young woman’s lover graze?**

The young woman’s lover grazed among the lilies.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:3

## Song of Solomon 6:4 (id: 179211)

**What two cities did the woman’s lover use to describe her?**

He described her as two cities, Tirzah and Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:4

## Song of Solomon 6:4 (#2) (id: 179212)

**How did her beloved feel about her?**

He felt that she was completely beautiful and lovely, but also terrifying.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:4

## Song of Solomon 6:5 (id: 179213)

**Why did the woman’s lover want her to turn her eyes away from him?**

The woman’s lover wanted her to turn her eyes away from him because her eyes excited him.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:5

## Song of Solomon 6:5 (#2) (id: 179214)

**How did the woman’s lover describe her hair?**

He described her hair as a flock of goats descending the slopes of Mount Gilead.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:5

## Song of Solomon 6:6 (id: 179215)

**How did her lover describe her teeth?**

He described her teeth as a flock of ewes, each with twins and none missing, coming up from the washing place.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:6

## Song of Solomon 6:7 (id: 179216)

**How did her lover describe her cheeks?**

Her lover described her cheeks as pomegranate halves behind her veil.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:7

## Song of Solomon 6:8 (id: 179217)

**How many other women did the woman’s lover say there were?**

He said there were 60 queens, 80 concubines, and young women without number.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:8

## Song of Solomon 6:9 (id: 179218)

**How did the woman’s lover describe his dove?**

The woman’s lover described her as undefiled, the only one, and the special and favorite daughter of her mother.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:9

## Song of Solomon 6:9 (#2) (id: 179219)

**What did the queens and the concubines say about her when they saw her?**

The queens and concubines called her blessed and praised her.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:9

## Song of Solomon 6:10 (id: 179220)

**How did the woman’s lover describe her?**

The woman’s lover described her like the dawn, the moon, the sun, and completely awesome.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:10

## Song of Solomon 6:11 (id: 179221)

**Why did the woman’s lover go into the grove of nut trees?**

The woman’s lover went into the grove of nut trees to see if the vines had budded and the pomegranates were in bloom.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:11

## Song of Solomon 6:12 (id: 179222)

**How did the woman’s lover feel.**

The woman’s lover felt as though he were riding in the chariot of a prince.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:12

## Song of Solomon 6:13 (id: 179223)

**What did the woman’s lover want her to do?**

The woman’s lover wanted her to turn back to him.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:13

## Song of Solomon 6:13 (#2) (id: 179224)

**Why did the woman’s lover want her to turn to him?**

The woman’s lover wanted her to turn to him so that he may gaze on her.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:13

## Song of Solomon 6:13 (#3) (id: 179225)

**What did the young woman ask her beloved?**

The young woman why he looked at her as though mesmerized (like the dance between two armies).

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 6:13

## Song of Solomon 7:1 (id: 179226)

**How did Solomon describe his lover’s feet in her sandals and the curves of her thighs?**

He described her feet in her sandals as beautiful and the curves of her thighs like jewels.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 7:1

## Song of Solomon 7:2 (id: 179227)

**How did Solomon describe his love’s navel and belly?**

Solomon described his love’s navel as a round bowl which never lacks mixed wine and her belly as mound of wheat surrounded with lilies.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 7:2

## Song of Solomon 7:3 (id: 179228)

**How did Solomon describe his lover’s two breasts?**

Solomon described her two breasts like two fawns, twins of a gazelle.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 7:3

## Song of Solomon 7:4 (id: 179229)

**How did Solomon describe his lover’s neck, eyes, and nose?**

Solomon described her neck as an ivory tower, her eyes like a pool, and her nose like the tower in Lebanon.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 7:4

## Song of Solomon 7:5 (id: 179230)

**How did Solomon describe his lover’s head and hair?**

Solomon described her head like Mount Carmel and her hair as dark.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 7:5

## Song of Solomon 7:7 (id: 179231)

**How did Solomon describe his lover and her breasts?**

He described her height as a date palm tree and her breasts as clusters of grapes.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 7:7

## Song of Solomon 7:8 (id: 179232)

**What did he also want his lover’s breasts and breath to be like?**

He also wanted his lover’s breasts to be like grape clusters and her breath to be sweet like the smell of an apple.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 7:8

## Song of Solomon 7:9 (id: 179233)

**What did he want his lover’s mouth to be like?**

He wanted her mouth to be like the best wine.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 7:9

## Song of Solomon 7:10 (id: 179234)

**To whom did the young woman belong and whom did he desire?**

The young woman belonged to her beloved and her beloved desired her.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 7:10

## Song of Solomon 7:11 (id: 179235)

**Where did the young woman want her beloved to go with her?**

She wanted him to go into the countryside to spend the night in the villages.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 7:11

## Song of Solomon 7:12 (id: 179236)

**Why did she want her beloved to rise early?**

She wanted him to rise early to see if the vines in the vineyards had budded and the pomegranates had begun blooming.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 7:12

## Song of Solomon 7:12 (#2) (id: 179237)

**What did she say she would give her beloved when they got to the vineyards?**

She said she would give him her love.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 7:12

## Song of Solomon 7:13 (id: 179238)

**What did she say the mandrakes would do?**

She said the mandrakes would give off their fragrance.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 7:13

## Song of Solomon 7:13 (#2) (id: 179239)

**What did she say was at the door where she and her lover were staying?**

She said that at the door where they were staying there were all sorts of choice fruits, new and old, that she had stored up for him.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 7:13

## Song of Solomon 8:1 (id: 179240)

**What did the woman wish that her lover was like and why?**

She wished he were like her brother so that she could kiss her lover at any time and no one would despise her.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 8:1

## Song of Solomon 8:2 (id: 179241)

**Where would the woman have liked to bring her lover?**

She would have liked to bring him to her mother’s house.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 8:2

## Song of Solomon 8:3 (id: 179242)

**What were her lover’s left and right hands doing?**

His left hand was holding her head and his right hand was hugging her.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 8:3

## Song of Solomon 8:4 (id: 179243)

**What did the woman want Jerusalem’s women to promise?**

The woman wanted Jerusalem’s women to promise that they would not stir up love before its proper time.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 8:4

## Song of Solomon 8:5 (id: 179244)

**What did the women of Jerusalem ask?**

They asked who was coming up from the wilderness, leaning on her beloved.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 8:5

## Song of Solomon 8:5 (#2) (id: 179245)

**What did the young woman tell her lover when she woke him under the apple tree?**

She told him that his mother had conceived and given birth to him under the apple tree.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 8:5

## Song of Solomon 8:6 (id: 179246)

**What did the young woman want her lover to do and why?**

She wanted him to set her as a seal over his heart, because love is as strong as death, and jealousy flashes like a hot flame.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 8:6

## Song of Solomon 8:7 (id: 179247)

**What couldn’t stop love?**

Floods of water could put out the fire of love.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 8:7

## Song of Solomon 8:8 (id: 179248)

**What did the woman’s brothers say about their little sister?**

They said that her breasts had not yet grown and that they wondered what they would do for her when she was promised in marriage.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 8:8

## Song of Solomon 8:9 (id: 179249)

**What would the woman’s brothers do if she were a wall?**

If she were a wall, they would build a tower of silver on her.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 8:9

## Song of Solomon 8:9 (#2) (id: 179250)

**What would the woman’s brothers do if she were a door?**

If she were a door, they would adorn her with boards of cedar.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 8:9

## Song of Solomon 8:10 (id: 179251)

**How did the young woman describe herself?**

She described herself as a wall with breasts like fortress towers and completely mature.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 8:10

## Song of Solomon 8:11 (id: 179252)

**What did the young woman say that Solomon did with his vineyard at Baal Hamon?**

Solomon leased his vineyard to those who would take care of it.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 8:11

## Song of Solomon 8:12 (id: 179253)

**What does the young woman say about her own vineyard and those who maintained it?**

She said the 1000 shekels that it brought belonged to Solomon and that those who maintained it would get 200 shekels.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 8:12

## Song of Solomon 8:13 (id: 179254)

**What did the woman’s lover say to her who lived in the gardens about what his friends, as well as he, wanted to hear?**

He said that his friends, as well as he, wanted to be the ones to hear her voice.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 8:13

## Song of Solomon 8:14 (id: 179255)

**What did the young woman want her beloved to do and be like?**

She wanted her beloved to hurry and to be like a deer.

* **Associated Passages:** SNG 8:14

