# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Hosea 1:2 (id: 170897)

**What kind of wife did Yahweh tell Hosea to take for himself?**

Yahweh told him to take for himself a wife who was a prostitute.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 1:2

## Hosea 1:4 (id: 170898)

**Why should Hosea call the name of his first son Jezreel?**

Hosea should call his name Jezreel. For in a little while Yahweh will punish the house of Jehu for the bloodshed at Jezreel.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 1:4

## Hosea 1:7 (id: 170899)

**On whom will Yahweh have mercy?**

Yahweh will have mercy on the house of Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 1:7

## Hosea 1:9 (id: 170900)

**Why should Hosea call the name of his second son Lo Ammi?**

Hosea should call his name Lo Ammi, for the Israelites were no longer his people.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 1:9

## Hosea 1:10 (id: 170901)

**What will be said to those who formerly were not Yahweh’s people?**

It will be said to them that they were people of the living God.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 1:10

## Hosea 2:2–3 (id: 170902)

**What will Yahweh do if Israel does not put away her prostitution?**

If Israel does not put away her prostitution, Yahweh will strip her naked and show her nakedness as on the day that she was born.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 2:2–HOS 2:3

## Hosea 2:4 (id: 170903)

**Why will Yahweh not have any mercy on Israel’s children?**

Yahweh will not have any mercy on her children, for they were children of prostitution.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 2:4

## Hosea 2:7 (id: 170904)

**Why will Israel return to her first husband?**

Israel will return to her first husband, for was it better for her then than it now.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 2:7

## Hosea 2:8 (id: 170905)

**Who lavished on Israel silver and gold?**

Yahweh lavished on her silver and gold.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 2:8

## Hosea 2:10 (id: 170906)

**What will Yahweh do to Israel in the sight of her lovers?**

Yahweh will strip her naked in the sight of her lovers.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 2:10

## Hosea 2:12 (id: 170907)

**What wages did Israel’s lovers give her?**

Israel’s lovers gave her vines and fig trees.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 2:12

## Hosea 2:15 (id: 170908)

**How will the prostitute answer Yahweh after he goes to win her back?**

She will answer him as she did in the days of her youth, as in the days that she came out of the land of Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 2:15

## Hosea 2:16 (id: 170909)

**In that day, what will Israel call Yahweh?**

She will call him ‘My husband,’ and no longer, ‘My Baal.’

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 2:16

## Hosea 2:18 (id: 170910)

**What will Yahweh make his people do?**

He will make them lie down in safety.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 2:18

## Hosea 2:19 (id: 170911)

**For how long will Yahweh promise to be his people’s husband?**

Yahweh will promise to be their husband forever.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 2:19

## Hosea 2:22 (id: 170912)

**What will the new wine and the oil answer?**

The new wine and the oil will answer Jezreel.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 2:22

## Hosea 2:23 (id: 170913)

**What will Yahweh say to those who were not his people?**

Yahweh will say to those who were not his people, ‘You are my people.’

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 2:23

## Hosea 3:1 (id: 170914)

**In what way must Hosea love his wife?**

Hosea must love her just as Yahweh loves the people of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 3:1

## Hosea 3:2 (id: 170915)

**For how much did Yahweh buy Israel?**

He bought her for fifteen pieces of silver and a homer and a lethek of barley.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 3:2

## Hosea 3:4–5 (id: 170916)

**After the people of Israel live for many days without a king, who will they seek?**

After the people of Israel live for many days without a king, they will seek Yahweh their God and David their king.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 3:4–HOS 3:5

## Hosea 4:1 (id: 170917)

**Against whom did Yahweh have a lawsuit?**

Yahweh had a lawsuit against the inhabitants of the land.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 4:1

## Hosea 4:3 (id: 170918)

**What was happening to every one who was living in the land?**

Every one who was living in it was wasting away.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 4:3

## Hosea 4:5 (id: 170919)

**Who will stumble by night?**

The prophets will stumble by night.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 4:5

## Hosea 4:6 (id: 170920)

**Why will Yahweh forget the children of the people of Israel?**

Yahweh will forget the children of the people of Israel because they forgot the Law of God.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 4:6

## Hosea 4:9 (id: 170921)

**How will the people act?**

They will act like the priests.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 4:9

## Hosea 4:11 (id: 170922)

**What things took away the understanding of the people?**

Sexual promiscuity, wine, and new wine took away their understanding.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 4:11

## Hosea 4:14 (id: 170923)

**Why will Yahweh not punish the people’s daughters when they choose to commit sexual immorality?**

Yahweh will not punish the people’s daughters when they choose to commit sexual immorality, for the men also give themselves to the prostitutes.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 4:14

## Hosea 4:15 (id: 170924)

**Where should the people not go?**

They should not go to Gilgal or Beth Aven.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 4:15

## Hosea 4:18 (id: 170925)

**What did Ephraim do even when their strong drink was gone?**

Ephraim continued to commit adultery even when their strong drink was gone.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 4:18

## Hosea 5:2 (id: 170926)

**Where did the rebels stand?**

The rebels stood deep in slaughter.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 5:2

## Hosea 5:4 (id: 170927)

**What will not allow Ephraim to turn to their God?**

Ephraim’s deeds will not allow them to turn to their God.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 5:4

## Hosea 5:6 (id: 170928)

**Why will Israel, Ephraim, and Judah not find Yahweh?**

Israel, Ephraim, and Judah will not find Yahweh, for he has withdrawn himself from them.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 5:6

## Hosea 5:9 (id: 170929)

**Who declared that Ephraim will become a desolation?**

Yahweh declared that Ephraim will become a desolation.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 5:9

## Hosea 5:10 (id: 170930)

**On whom will Yahweh pour his wrath?**

Yahweh will pour his wrath on the leaders of Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 5:10

## Hosea 5:13 (id: 170931)

**When did Ephraim go to Assyria?**

When Ephraim saw his sickness, then he went to Assyria.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 5:13

## Hosea 5:15 (id: 170932)

**For how long will Yahweh go and return to his place?**

Yahweh will go and return to his place until Ephraim and Judah acknowledge their guilt and seek his face; until they earnestly seek him in their distress.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 5:15

## Hosea 6:1 (id: 170933)

**Although Yahweh tore his people to pieces, what will he then do?**

Although he tore them to pieces, he will heal them.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 6:1

## Hosea 6:2 (id: 170934)

**When will Yahweh raise up his people?**

He will raise them up on the third day.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 6:2

## Hosea 6:4 (id: 170935)

**What was the faithfulness of Ephraim and Judah like?**

Their faithfulness was like a morning cloud, like the dew that goes away early.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 6:4

## Hosea 6:6 (id: 170936)

**What did God desire?**

God desired faithfulness and not sacrifice, and the knowledge of him more than burnt offerings.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 6:6

## Hosea 6:9 (id: 170937)

**In what way did the priests band together to commit murder on the way to Shechem?**

As gangs of robbers wait for someone, so the priests banded together to commit murder on the way to Shechem.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 6:9

## Hosea 6:11 (id: 170938)

**What was appointed to Judah when Yahweh will restore the fortunes of his people?**

A harvest was appointed, when Yahweh will restore the fortunes of his people.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 6:11

## Hosea 7:2 (id: 170939)

**What did Yahweh remember?**

Yahweh remembered all their evil deeds.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 7:2

## Hosea 7:3 (id: 170940)

**How did the people make the officials glad?**

By their lies they made the officials glad.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 7:3

## Hosea 7:6 (id: 170941)

**What were the people’s hearts like?**

Their hearts were like an oven.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 7:6

## Hosea 7:9 (id: 170942)

**What did Ephraim not know?**

Ephraim did not know that foreigners devoured his strength or that gray hairs were sprinkled on him.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 7:9

## Hosea 7:11 (id: 170943)

**How was Ephraim like a dove?**

Ephraim was like a dove, gullible and without sense.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 7:11

## Hosea 7:13 (id: 170944)

**Why did Yahweh not rescue the people?**

Yahweh did not rescue the people because they spoke lies against him.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 7:13

## Hosea 7:14 (id: 170945)

**What did the people do to obtain grain and new wine?**

They cut themselves to obtain grain and new wine.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 7:14

## Hosea 7:16 (id: 170946)

**Why will the officials fall?**

The officials will fall because of the wickedness of their tongues.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 7:16

## Hosea 8:1 (id: 170947)

**Why was an eagle coming over the house of Yahweh?**

An eagle was coming over the house of Yahweh because the people broke his covenant and rebelled against his Law.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 8:1

## Hosea 8:4 (id: 170948)

**With what did the people make idols for themselves?**

With their silver and gold they made idols for themselves.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 8:4

## Hosea 8:7 (id: 170949)

**What happened when people sowed the wind?**

People sowed the wind and reaped the whirlwind.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 8:7

## Hosea 8:10 (id: 170950)

**What will Yahweh do even though the people hired lovers among the nations?**

Even though they hired lovers among the nations, Yahweh will gather them together.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 8:10

## Hosea 8:12 (id: 170951)

**If Yahweh wrote down his Law for them ten thousand times, how would they view it?**

If Yahweh wrote down his Law for them ten thousand times, they would view it as something strange to them.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 8:12

## Hosea 8:13 (id: 170952)

**How will Yahweh punish the people’s sins?**

He will punish their sins by returning them to Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 8:13

## Hosea 9:1 (id: 170953)

**What did Israel love to pay?**

Israel loved to pay the wages a prostitute required on all the threshing floors.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 9:1

## Hosea 9:4 (id: 170954)

**What will Ephraim’s sacrifices be to them like?**

Their sacrifices will be to them like mourners’ food: all who eat it will be defiled.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 9:4

## Hosea 9:6 (id: 170955)

**If the people escaped from destruction, what will happen?**

If the people escaped from destruction, Egypt will gather them, and Memphis will bury them.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 9:6

## Hosea 9:7 (id: 170956)

**What days were coming?**

The days for punishment were coming. The days for retribution were coming.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 9:7

## Hosea 9:8 (id: 170957)

**What was on the prophet’s paths?**

A bird’s snare was on his paths.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 9:8

## Hosea 9:10 (id: 170958)

**After the fathers went to Baal Peor, what did they become like?**

After the fathers went to Baal Peor, they became as detestable as the idol they loved.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 9:10

## Hosea 9:11 (id: 170959)

**What will happen to Ephraim’s glory?**

Ephraim’s glory will fly away like a bird.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 9:11

## Hosea 9:14 (id: 170960)

**What will Yahweh give Ephraim?**

Yahweh will give them a miscarrying womb and breasts that give no milk.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 9:14

## Hosea 9:15 (id: 170961)

**Why will Yahweh drive Ephraim out of his house?**

Because of their sinful deeds, Yahweh will drive them out of his house.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 9:15

## Hosea 9:16 (id: 170962)

**What would happen even if Ephraim had children?**

Even if they had children, Yahweh would put their beloved children to death.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 9:16

## Hosea 10:1 (id: 170963)

**What happened as Israel’s fruit increased?**

As his fruit increased, the more altars he built.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 10:1

## Hosea 10:4 (id: 170964)

**How did Israel make covenants?**

Israel made covenants by swearing falsely.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 10:4

## Hosea 10:6 (id: 170965)

**Why will the inhabitants of Samaria be carried to Assyria?**

They will be carried to Assyria for a present for the great king.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 10:6

## Hosea 10:8 (id: 170966)

**What will grow over the altar?**

Thorns and thistles will grow over the altar.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 10:8

## Hosea 10:11 (id: 170967)

**Why will Yahweh put a yoke on Ephraim’s fair neck?**

Because Ephraim was a trained heifer that loves to thresh the grain, Yahweh will put a yoke on her fair neck.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 10:11

## Hosea 10:12 (id: 170968)

**For how long should the people seek Yahweh?**

They should seek Yahweh until he comes and rains righteousness on them.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 10:12

## Hosea 10:14 (id: 170969)

**What happened to mothers with their children when Shalman destroyed Beth Arbel?**

When Shalman destroyed Beth Arbel, mothers were dashed to pieces with their children.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 10:14

## Hosea 11:1 (id: 170970)

**From where did Yahweh call Israel when Israel was a young man?**

When Israel was a young man, Yahweh called him out of Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 11:1

## Hosea 11:3 (id: 170971)

**Who lifted Ephraim up by their arms?**

Yahweh lifted them up by their arms.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 11:3

## Hosea 11:7 (id: 170972)

**What were Yahweh’s people determined to do?**

Yahweh’s people were determined to turn away from him.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 11:7

## Hosea 11:9 (id: 170973)

**Why will Yahweh not again destroy Ephraim?**

Yahweh will not again destroy Ephraim, for he is God and not a man.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 11:9

## Hosea 11:10–11 (id: 170974)

**How will the people come?**

The people will come trembling from the west like a bird from Egypt, like a dove from the land of Assyria.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 11:10–HOS 11:11

## Hosea 11:12 (id: 170975)

**Who was still faithful to God?**

Judah was still faithful to God.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 11:12

## Hosea 12:2 (id: 170976)

**What did Yahweh have against Judah?**

Yahweh had a lawsuit against Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 12:2

## Hosea 12:3 (id: 170977)

**What did Jacob do in the womb?**

In the womb, Jacob grasped his brother by the heel.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 12:3

## Hosea 12:6 (id: 170978)

**For what should the people wait?**

They should wait continually for their God.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 12:6

## Hosea 12:8 (id: 170979)

**What will no one find in Ephraim’s work?**

In all Ephraim’s work no one will find any sin in him, anything that would be sin.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 12:8

## Hosea 12:9 (id: 170980)

**How long had Yahweh been with the people?**

Yahweh had been with them from the land of Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 12:9

## Hosea 12:11 (id: 170981)

**What will Gilgal’s altars be like?**

Gilgal’s altars will be like heaps of stone in the furrows of the fields.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 12:11

## Hosea 12:13 (id: 170982)

**What did Yahweh do by a prophet?**

Yahweh brought Israel out of Egypt by a prophet, and by a prophet he took care of them.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 12:13

## Hosea 13:1 (id: 170983)

**Why did Ephraim become guilty?**

He became guilty because of Baal worship.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 13:1

## Hosea 13:3 (id: 170984)

**What happens to chaff?**

Chaff is driven by the wind away from a threshing floor.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 13:3

## Hosea 13:6 (id: 170985)

**What happened when Yahweh’s people were filled?**

When Yahweh’s people were filled, their heart became lifted up and they forgot him.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 13:6

## Hosea 13:8 (id: 170986)

**Like what will Yahweh attack his people?**

He will attack them like a bear that is robbed of her cubs.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 13:8

## Hosea 13:9 (id: 170987)

**Why was Israel’s destruction coming?**

Israel’s destruction was coming because they were against Yahweh, their helper.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 13:9

## Hosea 13:13 (id: 170988)

**When it was time for Ephraim to be born, what happened?**

When it was time for Ephraim to be born, he did not come out of the womb.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 13:13

## Hosea 13:14 (id: 170989)

**What did Yahweh want brought to him?**

Yahweh wanted death’s plagues and Sheol’s destruction brought to him.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 13:14

## Hosea 13:15 (id: 170990)

**What will Ephraim’s enemy plunder?**

His enemy will plunder the storehouse of every precious object.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 13:15

## Hosea 13:16 (id: 170991)

**What will happen to Samaria’s young children?**

Their young children will be dashed to pieces.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 13:16

## Hosea 14:1 (id: 170992)

**Why did Israel fall?**

Israel fell because of their sin.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 14:1

## Hosea 14:3 (id: 170993)

**Why will Israel not say to the work of their hands, “You are our gods”?**

Israel will not say to the work of their hands, “You are our gods,” for in Yahweh the fatherless person finds compassion.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 14:3

## Hosea 14:4 (id: 170994)

**When will Yahweh heal Israel?**

Yahweh will heal them when they turn back to him.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 14:4

## Hosea 14:7 (id: 170995)

**What will the people’s fame be like?**

Their fame will be like the wine of Lebanon.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 14:7

## Hosea 14:9 (id: 170996)

**Who will stumble in the ways of Yahweh?**

The rebellious will stumble in them.

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 14:9

