# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Questions_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Joel 1:1 (id: 173694)

**Whose word came to Joel?**

The word of Yahweh came to Joel.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 1:1

## Joel 1:3 (id: 173695)

**To whom were the elder to tell the word of Yahweh?**

They were to tell their children, and their children were to tell their children.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 1:3

## Joel 1:4 (id: 173696)

**What happened to what the great locusts have left?**

The grasshopper has eaten what the great locusts have left.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 1:4

## Joel 1:5 (id: 173697)

**Why will drinkers of wine wail?**

They will wail because the sweet wine has been cut off.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 1:5

## Joel 1:7 (id: 173698)

**Into what has the enemy made the vineyard?**

He has made the vineyard into a terrifying place.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 1:7

## Joel 1:8 (id: 173699)

**For what reason does the virgin mourn?**

The virgin mourns for the death of her young husband.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 1:8

## Joel 1:10 (id: 173700)

**What has happened to the grain?**

The grain had been destroyed.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 1:10

## Joel 1:13 (id: 173701)

**What has been withheld from the house of God?**

The grain offering and the drink offering have been withheld from the house of God.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 1:13

## Joel 1:15 (id: 173702)

**When will the day of Yahweh be here?**

The day of Yahweh is almost here.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 1:15

## Joel 1:17 (id: 173703)

**What has been broken down?**

The barns have been broken down.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 1:17

## Joel 1:18 (id: 173704)

**Why are the herds of cattle suffering?**

The herds of cattle are suffering because they have no pasture.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 1:18

## Joel 1:19 (id: 173705)

**To whom does Joel call?**

Joel calls to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 1:19

## Joel 1:20 (id: 173706)

**For whom do the animals of the field pant?**

The animals of the field pant for Yahweh

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 1:20

## Joel 2:1 (id: 173707)

**Why should all the inhabitants of the land tremble in fear?**

They should tremble in fear, for the day of Yahweh is coming.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:1

## Joel 2:2 (id: 173708)

**When has there been an army like this one?**

There has never been an army like this one, and there never will be again.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:2

## Joel 2:3 (id: 173709)

**What is the land like behind the army?**

The land behind the army is a ruined wilderness.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:3

## Joel 2:4 (id: 173710)

**What does the army look like and act like?**

The army looks like horses and runs like horsemen.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:4

## Joel 2:9 (id: 173711)

**How does the army enter the city?**

They rush on the city, they run on the wall, they climb in houses, and they go through windows like thieves.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:9

## Joel 2:11 (id: 173712)

**Whose army is this?**

This is Yahweh’s army.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:11

## Joel 2:13 (id: 173713)

**What two things should the people tear?**

They should tear their hearts and their garments.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:13

## Joel 2:13 (#2) (id: 173714)

**Why should the people return to Yahweh?**

He is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abundant in love, and he would like to turn from inflicting punishment.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:13

## Joel 2:15 (id: 173715)

**Why should the people blow a trumpet in Zion?**

They should blow a trumpet to consecrate a fast, and to call a sacred assembly.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:15

## Joel 2:19 (id: 173716)

**What had Yahweh’s people been among the nations?**

Yahweh’s people had been a disgrace among the nations.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:19

## Joel 2:21 (id: 173717)

**Why should the land not fear?**

The land should not fear for Yahweh has done great things.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:21

## Joel 2:25 (id: 173718)

**Who sent the mighty army?**

Yahweh sent the mighty army.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:25

## Joel 2:26–27 (id: 173719)

**Will Yahweh ever bring shame on his people again?**

No, he will never bring shame on his people again.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:26–JOL 2:27

## Joel 2:28–29 (id: 173720)

**What will happen when Yahweh pours out his Spirit?**

Their sons and your daughters will prophesy, their old men will dream dreams, and their young men will see visions.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:28–JOL 2:29

## Joel 2:30 (id: 173721)

**What will Yahweh show in heavens and on the earth?**

Yahweh show wonders in heavens and on the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:30

## Joel 2:31 (id: 173722)

**Into what will the sun turn?**

The sun will turn into darkness.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:31

## Joel 2:32 (id: 173723)

**Who will be saved at that time?**

Everyone who calls on the name of Yahweh will be saved.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 2:32

## Joel 3:2 (id: 173724)

**Who will Yahweh bring to the Valley of Jehoshphat?**

Yahweh will bring the nations to the Valley of Jehoshphat.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 3:2

## Joel 3:2 (#2) (id: 173725)

**Who did the nations scatter?**

The nations scattered Yahweh’s people.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 3:2

## Joel 3:4 (id: 173726)

**At whom are Tyre, Sidon and all the regions of Philistia angry?**

Tyre, Sidon and all the regions of Philistia are angry at Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 3:4

## Joel 3:5 (id: 173727)

**What did Tyre, Sidon, and Philistia do with Yahweh’s treasures?**

They brought his treasures into their temples.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 3:5

## Joel 3:6 (id: 173728)

**What did Tyre, Sidon, and Philistia do to the people of Judah and Jerusalem?**

They sold the people to the Greeks in order to remove them far from their territory.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 3:6

## Joel 3:8 (id: 173729)

**What will Yahweh do to the sons and daughters of Tyre, Sidon, and Philistia?**

Yahweh will sell their sons and daughters to the Sabeans by the hand of the people of Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 3:8

## Joel 3:10 (id: 173730)

**Into what should the nations beat their plowshares?**

They should beat their plowshares into swords.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 3:10

## Joel 3:12 (id: 173731)

**What will Yahweh do to all surrounding nations?**

Yahweh will sit to judge all surrounding nations.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 3:12

## Joel 3:14 (id: 173732)

**What will happen to the sun, moon, and stars?**

The sun and the moon will become dark, and the stars will keep back their brightness.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 3:14

## Joel 3:16 (id: 173733)

**What two things will Yahweh be for his people?**

Yahweh be a shelter and a fortress for his people.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 3:16

## Joel 3:17 (id: 173734)

**Who lives in Zion?**

Yahweh theirs God lives in Zion.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 3:17

## Joel 3:18 (id: 173735)

**With what will the hills flow?**

The hills will flow with milk.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 3:18

## Joel 3:19 (id: 173736)

**Who will be abandoned because of the violence they did to the people of Judah?**

Egypt and Edom will be abandoned.

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 3:19

