# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Questions_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Obadiah 1:1 (id: 176414)

**For what purpose did Yahweh send an ambassador among the nations?**

Yahweh sent an ambassador among the nations to cause the nations to rise up for battle against Edom.

* **Associated Passages:** OBA 1:1

## Obadiah 1:3 (id: 176415)

**What was one of the sins of the Edomites?**

The Edomites had pride in their hearts and believed that they could not be brought down to the ground.

* **Associated Passages:** OBA 1:3

## Obadiah 1:7 (id: 176416)

**Who will deceive and prevail against Edom?**

The men who had an alliance of peace with Edom will deceive and prevail against Edom.

* **Associated Passages:** OBA 1:7

## Obadiah 1:10 (id: 176417)

**Why will Edom be covered with shame and cut off forever?**

Edom will be covered with shame and cut off forever because of the violence Edom did to his brother Jacob.

* **Associated Passages:** OBA 1:10

## Obadiah 1:11 (id: 176418)

**What happened on the day that Edom stood aloof from Jacob?**

On that day, strangers entered the gates of Jacob and took captive its wealth.

* **Associated Passages:** OBA 1:11

## Obadiah 1:12 (id: 176419)

**What did Yahweh tell Edom not to do regarding Judah in the day of Judah’s distress?**

Yahweh said that Edom should not have looked, rejoiced, or made their mouth great.

* **Associated Passages:** OBA 1:12

## Obadiah 1:13 (id: 176420)

**What did Yahweh tell Edom not to do regarding Judah in the day of Judah’s calamity?**

Yahweh said that Edom should not have entered Judah’s gates, rejoiced, or looted Judah’s wealth in the day of Judah’s calamity.

* **Associated Passages:** OBA 1:13

## Obadiah 1:15 (id: 176421)

**What did Yahweh say would return on Edom’s head?**

Yahweh said that Edom’s recompense would return on Edom’s head.

* **Associated Passages:** OBA 1:15

## Obadiah 1:17 (id: 176422)

**What would some in Mount Zion be able to do despite the distress of Judah?**

Some in Mount Zion would be able to escape despite the distress of Judah.

* **Associated Passages:** OBA 1:17

## Obadiah 1:18 (id: 176423)

**How many of Edom would escape the judgment of Yahweh?**

There would be no survivors in Edom after Yahweh’s judgment.

* **Associated Passages:** OBA 1:18

## Obadiah 1:19 (id: 176424)

**Who would then possess the mount of Esau?**

Those from the Negev would then possess the mount of Esau.

* **Associated Passages:** OBA 1:19

## Obadiah 1:21 (id: 176425)

**From where would the mountain of Esau then be judged?**

The mountain of Esau would then be judged from Mount Zion.

* **Associated Passages:** OBA 1:21

