# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Questions_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Jonah 1:2 (id: 173737)

**What did Yahweh tell Jonah to do?**

Yahweh told Jonah to get up and go to Nineveh and speak out against it.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 1:2

## Jonah 1:3 (id: 173738)

**What did Jonah do after Yahweh told him to go to Nineveh?**

Jonah got up to run away to Tarshish from before the face of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 1:3

## Jonah 1:4 (id: 173739)

**What did Yahweh do to the ship which Jonah had boarded?**

Yahweh sent a great wind and a great storm on the sea so that the ship was near to being broken up.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 1:4

## Jonah 1:5 (id: 173740)

**To whom did the sailors cry out in the midst of the storm?**

The sailors became very afraid and each cried out to his own god.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 1:5

## Jonah 1:7 (id: 173741)

**How did the sailors determine who was the cause of the evil?**

The sailors cast lots to determine the cause of the evil and the lot indicated Jonah.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 1:7

## Jonah 1:7 (#2) (id: 173742)

**What was the result of casting lots?**

The result was that the lot indicated that Jonah was the cause of the evil they were experiencing.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 1:7

## Jonah 1:10 (id: 173743)

**How did the sailors know that Jonah was running away from before the face of Yahweh?**

The sailors knew that Jonah was running away from before the face of Yahweh because Jonah told them.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 1:10

## Jonah 1:12 (id: 173744)

**What did Jonah tell the men to do in order to stop the storm?**

Jonah told the men to lift him up and throw him into the sea.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 1:12

## Jonah 1:14 (id: 173745)

**What two requests did the sailors make of Yahweh?**

The sailors asked Yahweh to not let them perish on account of the life of Jonah and to not hold them guilty for Jonah’s death.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 1:14

## Jonah 1:15 (id: 173746)

**What happened when the sailors threw Jonah into the sea?**

When the sailors threw Jonah into the sea, the sea stopped raging.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 1:15

## Jonah 1:17 (id: 173747)

**What happened to Jonah when the sailors threw him into the sea?**

Yahweh appointed a great fish to swallow Jonah, and Jonah was in the abdomen of the fish three days and three nights.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 1:17

## Jonah 2:1 (id: 173748)

**What did Jonah do in the belly of the fish?**

Jonah cried out to Yahweh in prayer because he was distressed.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 2:1

## Jonah 2:4 (id: 173749)

**What did Jonah hope he might be able to do again?**

Jonah hoped that he might be able to look toward Yahweh’s holy temple again.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 2:4

## Jonah 2:6 (id: 173750)

**From where did Yahweh bring up Jonah’s life?**

Yahweh brought Jonah’s life up from the pit.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 2:6

## Jonah 2:8 (id: 173751)

**What did Jonah say happens to those who give attention to empty vanities?**

Jonah said those who give attention to empty vanities forsake their covenant faithfulness.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 2:8

## Jonah 2:9 (id: 173752)

**When Jonah prayed in the belly of the fish, what did he say that he would do?**

Jonah said he would sacrifice to Yahweh with a voice of thanksgiving and fulfill what he had vowed.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 2:9

## Jonah 2:9 (#2) (id: 173753)

**To whom did Jonah say salvation belongs?**

Jonah said that salvation belongs to Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 2:9

## Jonah 2:10 (id: 173754)

**How did Yahweh respond to Jonah's prayer?**

Yahweh spoke to the fish and it vomited Jonah up onto the dry land.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 2:10

## Jonah 3:2 (id: 173755)

**What did Yahweh command Jonah to do for the second time?**

Yahweh commanded Jonah to go to Nineveh and speak Yahweh’s message.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 3:2

## Jonah 3:3 (id: 173756)

**How did Jonah respond the second time Yahweh told him to go to Nineveh?**

Jonah obeyed Yahweh and went to Nineveh.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 3:3

## Jonah 3:4 (id: 173757)

**What message did Jonah speak in Nineveh?**

Jonah said that in 40 days Nineveh would be overthrown.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 3:4

## Jonah 3:8 (id: 173758)

**How did the Ninevites respond to Yahweh’s message that Jonah preached?**

The Ninevites believed God, fasted, and put on sackcloth. The king of Nineveh made a decree which said that no person or animal should eat or drink water and that each person and animal must be covered with sackcloth and that each person should cry out to God and stop doing evil deeds including violent acts.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 3:8

## Jonah 3:9 (id: 173759)

**What hope did the king of Nineveh have for the people of Nineveh and the city?**

The king of Nineveh hoped that God would turn back from his anger and have compassion on them so that the people of Nineveh would not perish.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 3:9

## Jonah 3:10 (id: 173760)

**How did God respond to the Ninevites' repentance?**

God saw their deeds, that they turned away from their evil ways. And God relented in regard to the evil that he had said he would do to them; and he did not do it.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 3:10

## Jonah 4:1 (id: 173761)

**Why was Jonah angry?**

Jonah was angry because it seemed like a great evil to Jonah that Yahweh had mercy on the Ninevites and did not punish them.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 4:1

## Jonah 4:2 (id: 173762)

**Why did Jonah say that he had tried to flee to Tarshish?**

Jonah said that he had tried to flee to Tarshish because he knew that Yahweh was a gracious and compassionate God, slow to anger and abundant in covenant faithfulness, and one who relents from evil.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 4:2

## Jonah 4:3 (id: 173763)

**What did Jonah ask Yahweh to do to him?**

Jonah asked Yahweh to take his life.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 4:3

## Jonah 4:4 (id: 173764)

**What question did Yahweh ask Jonah?**

Yahweh asked Jonah if it was right for Jonah to be angry.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 4:4

## Jonah 4:5 (id: 173765)

**Why did Jonah go out of the city and sit down facing the city?**

Jonah wanted to see what would happen to the city of Nineveh.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 4:5

## Jonah 4:6 (id: 173766)

**What did Yahweh do for Jonah while he sat outside the city?**

Yahweh caused a plant to grow up over Jonah to be a shade for his head.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 4:6

## Jonah 4:7 (id: 173767)

**What did Yahweh do to the plant that had provided shade for Jonah?**

God appointed a worm at the rising of the dawn of the next day; and it attacked the plant, and it withered.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 4:7

## Jonah 4:9 (id: 173768)

**What question did Yahweh ask Jonah after Yahweh caused the plant to wither and a hot east wind to blow on Jonah?**

Yahweh asked Jonah if it was right for him to be angry about the plant.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 4:9

## Jonah 4:10 (id: 173769)

**How did Jonah feel when the plant that had given him shade withered and died?**

Jonah felt compassion for the plant that had withered and died.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 4:10

## Jonah 4:11 (id: 173770)

**For whom did Yahweh feel compassion?**

Yahweh felt compassion for the people and animals in Nineveh.

* **Associated Passages:** JON 4:11

