# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Micah 1:1 (id: 175241)

**Who were the kings of Judah when the word of Yahweh came to Micah?**

Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah were kings of Judah when the word of Yahweh came to Micah.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 1:1

## Micah 1:3 (id: 175242)

**On what will Yahweh come down and tread?**

Yahweh will come down and tread on the pagan shrines on the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 1:3

## Micah 1:5 (id: 175243)

**Why will Yahweh bring this judgment?**

Yahweh will bring this judgment because of the rebellion of Jacob, and because of the sins of the house of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 1:5

## Micah 1:7 (id: 175244)

**How did Samaria gather carved figures, gifts, and idols?**

Samaria gathered carved figures, gifts, and idols from the gifts to her prostitution.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 1:7

## Micah 1:8 (id: 175245)

**How did Micah express his grief over the sin of Israel and Jacob?**

Micah lamented and wailed, and went barefoot and naked.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 1:8

## Micah 1:11 (id: 175246)

**Why did Beth Ezel mourn?**

Beth Ezel mourned, for their protection was taken away.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 1:11

## Micah 1:13 (id: 175247)

**What city was the beginning of sin for the daughter of Zion?**

Lachish was the beginning of sin for the daughter of Zion.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 1:13

## Micah 1:16 (id: 175248)

**Why should the Israelites shave their heads?**

They should shave their heads, for their children would go into exile from them.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 1:16

## Micah 2:1 (id: 175249)

**Where are people planning to do evil?**

They are planning on their beds to do evil.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 2:1

## Micah 2:4–5 (id: 175250)

**Why will the rich people have no descendants to divide up the territory?**

Yahweh will change the territory of the people, and remove it from them. So the rich people will have no descendants to divide up the territory.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 2:4–MIC 2:5

## Micah 2:8 (id: 175251)

**From whom do Yahweh’s people strip the robe?**

They strip the robe from those who pass by unsuspectingly.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 2:8

## Micah 2:10 (id: 175252)

**Why should Yahweh’s people get up and leave?**

They should get up and leave for this was not a place where they could stay, because of its uncleanness.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 2:10

## Micah 2:12 (id: 175253)

**Who will gather the remnant of Israel?**

Yahweh will gather the remnant of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 2:12

## Micah 3:3 (id: 175254)

**Who eats the flesh of Yahweh’s people?**

The leaders of Jacob eat the flesh of Yahweh’s people.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 3:3

## Micah 3:4 (id: 175255)

**Why will Yahweh hide his face from the leaders of Jacob?**

Yahweh will hide his face from the leaders of Jacob because they have done evil deeds.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 3:4

## Micah 3:6 (id: 175256)

**Why will the prophets do no divination?**

It will be dark so that the prophets will do no divination.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 3:6

## Micah 3:11 (id: 175257)

**For what do the leaders judge?**

The leaders judge for a bribe.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 3:11

## Micah 4:1 (id: 175258)

**When will the mountain of Yahweh’s house be established over the other mountains?**

In the last days the mountain of Yahweh’s house will be established over the other mountains.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 4:1

## Micah 4:2 (id: 175259)

**Why will many nations want to go to the mountain of Yahweh?**

Many nations will want to go to the mountain of Yahweh, so he will teach them his ways, and they will walk in his paths.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 4:2

## Micah 4:5 (id: 175260)

**In what do all the peoples walk?**

All the peoples walk in the name of their god.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 4:5

## Micah 4:6 (id: 175261)

**Whom will Yahweh assemble?**

Yahweh will assemble the lame and gather the outcast, those whom he had afflicted.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 4:6

## Micah 4:10 (id: 175262)

**Where will the daughter of Zion be rescued?**

The daughter of Zion will be rescued in Babylon.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 4:10

## Micah 4:12 (id: 175263)

**According to the prophet, who does not know Yahweh’s thoughts?**

The nations do not know Yahweh’s thoughts

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 4:12

## Micah 4:13 (id: 175264)

**To whom will Yahweh devote many peoples’ unjust wealth?**

Yahweh will devote their unjust wealth to himself.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 4:13

## Micah 5:1 (id: 175265)

**With what will the enemy strike the leader of Israel?**

They will strike the leader of Israel with a rod on the cheek.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 5:1

## Micah 5:3 (id: 175266)

**For how long will God give up the clans of Judah?**

God will give them up, until the time when she who was in labor bears a child.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 5:3

## Micah 5:4 (id: 175267)

**Who will shepherd his flock in the strength of Yahweh?**

The child will shepherd his flock in the strength of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 5:4

## Micah 5:7 (id: 175268)

**For what do the remnant of Jacob not wait?**

The remnant of Jacob do not wait for man.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 5:7

## Micah 5:9 (id: 175269)

**What will happen when the Israelites’ hand will be lifted against their enemies?**

When the Israelites’ hand is lifted against their enemies, it will destroy them.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 5:9

## Micah 5:15 (id: 175270)

**On whom will Yahweh execute vengeance?**

Yahweh will execute vengeance on the nations that have not listened.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 5:15

## Micah 6:2 (id: 175271)

**What will Yahweh do against Israel?**

Yahweh will fight in court against Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 6:2

## Micah 6:3 (id: 175272)

**What did Yahweh command his people to do against him?**

He commanded them to testify against him.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 6:3

## Micah 6:8 (id: 175273)

**What did Yahweh require from his people?**

Yahweh required his people to act justly, love kindness, and walk humbly with their God.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 6:8

## Micah 6:12 (id: 175274)

**Whose tongue is deceitful?**

The tongue of the inhabitants who have spoken lies is deceitful.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 6:12

## Micah 6:13 (id: 175275)

**Why did Yahweh make the city a ruin?**

Yahweh made the city a ruin because of his sins.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 6:13

## Micah 6:16 (id: 175276)

**By whose advice did the city walk?**

The city walked by the advice of Omri and Ahab.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 6:16

## Micah 7:2 (id: 175277)

**Who perished from the earth?**

The godly man perished from the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 7:2

## Micah 7:4 (id: 175278)

**Who foretold the day of the punishment of the remaining people?**

The watchmen foretold the day of the punishment of the remaining people.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 7:4

## Micah 7:6 (id: 175279)

**Who are a man’s enemies?**

A man’s enemies are the people of his own house.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 7:6

## Micah 7:8 (id: 175280)

**What would happen after Micah falls?**

After Micah falls, he will rise.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 7:8

## Micah 7:9 (id: 175281)

**For how long will Micah bear Yahweh’s rage?**

Micah will bear Yahweh’s rage until Yahweh pleaded his cause, and executed judgment for Micah.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 7:9

## Micah 7:10 (id: 175282)

**At whom will Micah’s eyes look?**

Micah’s eyes will look at his enemy.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 7:10

## Micah 7:11–12 (id: 175283)

**What will happen when a day comes to build the walls?**

When a day comes to build the walls, the boundaries will be extended very far.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 7:11–MIC 7:12

## Micah 7:14 (id: 175284)

**How did Micah ask Yahweh to shepherd his people?**

Micah asked Yahweh to shepherd his people with his rod.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 7:14

## Micah 7:15 (id: 175285)

**What will Yahweh show his people?**

Yahweh will show them wonders.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 7:15

## Micah 7:16 (id: 175286)

**What will the nations see and be ashamed of?**

They will see and be ashamed of all their power.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 7:16

## Micah 7:17 (id: 175287)

**Who will the nations come to and be afraid of?**

The nations will come to Yahweh and they will be afraid because of him.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 7:17

## Micah 7:18 (id: 175288)

**Why will Yahweh not keep his anger anger forever?**

Yahweh will not keep his anger forever, because he loves to show his covenant faithfulness.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 7:18

## Micah 7:19 (id: 175289)

**Into what will Yahweh throw all the sins of the people of Israel?**

Yahweh will throw all their sins into the depths of the sea.

* **Associated Passages:** MIC 7:19

