# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Zephaniah 1:3 (id: 179425)

**What did Yahweh say he would do to man, beast, the birds of the skies, and the fish of the sea?**

God said He would destroy them and cut them off.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 1:3

## Zephaniah 1:4 (id: 179426)

**Yahweh said he would cut off every remnant of a certain false god. What false god did he name?**

He would cut off every remnant of Baal.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 1:4

## Zephaniah 1:5 (id: 179427)

**People were going up onto their housetops and bowing down to something. What was it?**

The ones on the housetops worship the heavenly bodies.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 1:5

## Zephaniah 1:7 (id: 179428)

**What did Zephaniah tell the people to do in the presence (face) of Yahweh?**

They were to be silent in the presence of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 1:7

## Zephaniah 1:9 (id: 179429)

**What were the people doing whom Yahweh said he would “visit” (punish)?**

Yahweh will punish the princes and the king’s sons, everyone dressed in foreign clothes, those who leap over the door sill, and those who fill their master’s house with violence and deceit.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 1:9

## Zephaniah 1:10 (id: 179430)

**What sounds did Yahweh say would come up from the Fish Gate and the Second Quarter?**

A cry of distress, and wailing will come in that day.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 1:10

## Zephaniah 1:11 (id: 179431)

**What did Yahweh say would happen to the “people of Canaan” (merchants)?**

They will be ruined, and all those who are weighed down with silver will be cut off.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 1:11

## Zephaniah 1:12 (id: 179432)

**What were some of the people saying about Yahweh?**

They said, “Yahweh will not do anything, either good or evil!”

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 1:12

## Zephaniah 1:14 (id: 179433)

**Who will cry out on the great day of Yahweh?**

The great day of Yahweh will be a day of fury, anguish, and darkness.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 1:14

## Zephaniah 1:17 (id: 179434)

**What will happen to the blood and innards of people who have sinned against Yahweh?**

Those who have sinned against God.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 1:17

## Zephaniah 1:18 (id: 179435)

**What will not be able to deliver people from the wrath of Yahweh?**

Their silver and their gold will not be able to save them.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 1:18

## Zephaniah 2:3 (id: 179436)

**Zephaniah says that people may be spared (hidden from) Yahweh’s anger if they do something. What should they do?**

The people must seek righteousness and humility to avoid Yahweh’s wrath.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 2:3

## Zephaniah 2:4 (id: 179437)

**What will happen to the cities of Gaza, Ashkelon, Ashdod, and Ekron?**

All peoples who will not heed the warning of Yahweh will be uprooted and destroyed.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 2:4

## Zephaniah 2:9 (id: 179438)

**What two cities will Moab and the sons of Ammon become like?**

Moab will become like Sodom, and the people of Ammon like Gomorrah.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 2:9

## Zephaniah 2:14 (id: 179439)

**What kind of birds will nest in the top of Assyria’s columns?**

Owls will nest in the tops of Assyria’s pillars.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 2:14

## Zephaniah 2:15 (id: 179440)

**What will people do who pass by “the exultant city” (Nineveh)?**

The exultant city will become a horror, a place for beasts to lie down in.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 2:15

## Zephaniah 3:3 (id: 179441)

**To what animals does Zephaniah compare these princes and judges?**

The princes of the violent city are like roaring lions.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 3:3

## Zephaniah 3:5 (id: 179442)

**When does Yahweh give his justice?**

Yahweh will dispense justice from morning to morning.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 3:5

## Zephaniah 3:7 (id: 179443)

**What did Yahweh want the people to do?**

Yahweh hoped the people would fear him and accept correction.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 3:7

## Zephaniah 3:8 (id: 179444)

**What did Yahweh say his judgment (decision) was?**

Yahweh has decided to assemble the nations and pour out his anger and wrath on them.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 3:8

## Zephaniah 3:9 (id: 179445)

**What will the peoples do once Yahweh has given them a “pure lip”?**

Yahweh will call the people to serve him standing shoulder to shoulder.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 3:9

## Zephaniah 3:13 (id: 179446)

**What things will the remnant of Israel no longer do?**

The remnant of Israel will no longer commit injustice and speak lies.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 3:13

## Zephaniah 3:14–15 (id: 179447)

**Why should the “daughter of Jerusalem” (the people who live in Jerusalem) rejoice and exult?**

Israel should sing and cheer because Yahweh has taken away their punishment.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 3:14–ZEP 3:15

## Zephaniah 3:19 (id: 179448)

**Yahweh says that he will turn the shame of the Israelites into something else. Into what?**

Yahweh will rescue the lame and gather together the outcast.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 3:19

## Zephaniah 3:20 (id: 179449)

**What will Yahweh restore to the Israelites?**

All the nations will respect and praise Israel when they see that Yahweh has restored them.

* **Associated Passages:** ZEP 3:20

