# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Questions_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Haggai 1:1 (id: 170670)

**When was the word of Yahweh by the hand of Haggai the prophet?**

The word was in the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, on the first day of the month.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 1:1

## Haggai 1:1 (#2) (id: 170671)

**To whom was the word of Yahweh?**

The word was to Zerubbabel the governor and Joshua the high priest.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 1:1

## Haggai 1:2 (id: 170672)

**What did Yahweh claim that the people said?**

He claimed that they said the time had not come to rebuild Yahweh’s house.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 1:2

## Haggai 1:4 (id: 170673)

**What was the condition of Yahweh’s house while the people lived in their finished houses?**

Yahweh’s house was desolate.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 1:4

## Haggai 1:8 (id: 170674)

**What did Yahweh command the people to do?**

Yahweh commanded the people to go up to the mountain and bring timber and rebuild his house.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 1:8

## Haggai 1:9 (id: 170675)

**Why did Yahweh blow away the little food that the people were able to bring home?**

Yahweh blew it away his house was desolate but each person was running to his own house.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 1:9

## Haggai 1:12 (id: 170676)

**How did Zerubbabel the governor, Joshua the priest, and all the remnant of the people respond to Yahweh’s voice and the words of Haggai the prophet?**

They all listened to Yahweh’s voice and Haggai’s words because they feared the face of Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 1:12

## Haggai 1:13 (id: 170677)

**How did Yahweh respond to the people’s obedience?**

Yahweh sent a message to them through Haggai to tell them, “I am with you!”

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 1:13

## Haggai 1:14–15 (id: 170678)

**When did Yahweh awaken the spirits of Zerubbabel the governor, Joshua the priest, and all the remnant of the people so that they came and worked on the house of Yahweh?**

Yahweh awakened their spirits on the twenty\-fourth day of the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the king.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 1:14–HAG 1:15

## Haggai 2:1 (id: 170679)

**When was the word of Yahweh again by the hand of Haggai the prophet?**

The word was in the seventh month on the twenty\-first day of the month.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 2:1

## Haggai 2:3–4 (id: 170680)

**Although the house of Yahweh was like nothing in the eyes of those who saw it in its former glory, why did Yahweh declare that Zerubbabel the governor, Joshua the high priest, and all the people should be strong and work?**

Yahweh declared that they should be strong and work because because he was with them.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 2:3–HAG 2:4

## Haggai 2:5 (id: 170681)

**What did Yahweh tell Zerubbabel, Joshua, and all the people not to do?**

Yahweh told them not to fear.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 2:5

## Haggai 2:6–7 (id: 170682)

**What would happen when Yahweh shook the heavens, earth, and every nation?**

People would come with the treasure of all the nations and Yahweh would fill his house with glory.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 2:6–HAG 2:7

## Haggai 2:11–12 (id: 170683)

**According to the priests, if a man carries holy flesh (sacrificed meat) in his garment and his garment touches other food, does that other food become holy?**

According to the priests, that other food does not become holy.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 2:11–HAG 2:12

## Haggai 2:13 (id: 170684)

**According to the priests, if someone who is unclean by a person (that is, through contact with a dead body) touches any food, does that food become unclean?**

According to the priests, that food becomes unclean.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 2:13

## Haggai 2:14 (id: 170685)

**The people were offering sacrifices on an altar at the temple. What did Yahweh consider those sacrifices to be like?**

Yahweh considered those sacrifices to be as unclean as food that someone had touched who was unclean through contact with a dead body.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 2:14

## Haggai 2:16 (id: 170686)

**Before the people began to rebuild the temple of Yahweh, how many measures of grain would they find in a heap where they thought there would be twenty measures?**

The people would find only ten measures of grain in a heap where they thought there would be twenty measures.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 2:16

## Haggai 2:17 (id: 170687)

**When Yahweh struck the people with blight and mildew and hail, did the people obey him?**

No, the people did not obey Yahweh.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 2:17

## Haggai 2:18 (id: 170688)

**How long were the people supposed to think back about what had been happening to them?**

They were to think back to the time when the temple of Yahweh was founded.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 2:18

## Haggai 2:19 (id: 170689)

**What did Yahweh promise he would do starting on the day Haggai was speaking?**

Yahweh promised that from that day forward he would bless the people.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 2:19

## Haggai 2:21–22 (id: 170690)

**What did Yahweh say he would do when he shook the heavens and the earth?**

Yahweh said that he would overthrow the throne of kingdoms and destroy their strength. The armies of the nations would destroy one another's chariots and horses and their riders.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 2:21–HAG 2:22

## Haggai 2:23 (id: 170691)

**Yahweh told Zerubbabel that he would make him like a signet ring for a particular reason. What was that reason?**

Yahweh told Zerubbabel that he would make him like a signet ring because he had chosen him.

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 2:23

