# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Mark 1:2–3 (id: 175290)

**What did the prophet Isaiah predict would happen before the Lord came?**

Isaiah predicted that God would send a messenger, a voice of someone calling out in the wilderness, to prepare the way of the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:2–MRK 1:3

## Mark 1:4 (id: 175291)

**What did John come preaching?**

John came preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:4

## Mark 1:5 (id: 175292)

**What did the people do as they were baptized by John?**

The people confessed their sins as they were baptized by John.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:5

## Mark 1:6 (id: 175293)

**What did John eat?**

John ate locusts and wild honey.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:6

## Mark 1:8 (id: 175294)

**With what did John say the one coming after him would baptize?**

John said the one coming after him would baptize with the Holy Spirit.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:8

## Mark 1:10 (id: 175295)

**What did Jesus see as he came up out of the water after being baptized by John?**

After being baptized, Jesus saw the heavens split open and the Spirit descend on him as a dove.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:10

## Mark 1:11 (id: 175296)

**What did the voice from heaven say after Jesus was baptized?**

The voice from heaven said, “You are my beloved Son; I am very pleased with you.”

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:11

## Mark 1:12 (id: 175297)

**Who drove Jesus out into the wilderness?**

The Spirit drove Jesus out into the wilderness.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:12

## Mark 1:13 (id: 175298)

**How long was Jesus in the wilderness, and what happened to him there?**

Jesus was in the wilderness 40 days, and he was tempted by Satan there.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:13

## Mark 1:15 (id: 175299)

**What message did Jesus preach?**

Jesus preached that the kingdom of God was near, and that people must repent and believe in the gospel.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:15

## Mark 1:16 (id: 175300)

**What was the occupation of Simon and Andrew?**

Simon and Andrew were fishermen.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:16

## Mark 1:17 (id: 175301)

**What did Jesus say he would make Simon and Andrew become?**

Jesus said he would make Simon and Andrew fishers of men.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:17

## Mark 1:19 (id: 175302)

**What was the occupation of James and John?**

James and John were fishermen.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:19

## Mark 1:22 (id: 175303)

**Why did Jesus’ teaching astonish the people in the synagogue?**

Jesus’ teaching astonished the people because Jesus taught as one with authority.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:22

## Mark 1:24 (id: 175304)

**What title did the unclean spirit in the synagogue give Jesus?**

The unclean spirit in the synagogue gave Jesus the title of the Holy One of God.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:24

## Mark 1:28 (id: 175305)

**What happened with the news about Jesus?**

The news about Jesus went out everywhere.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:28

## Mark 1:30 (id: 175306)

**When they went into Simon’s house, who did Jesus heal?**

When they went into Simon’s house, Jesus healed Simon’s mother\-in\-law.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:30

## Mark 1:32–34 (id: 175307)

**What happened when it was evening?**

When it was evening, the people brought all who were sick or possessed by demons, and Jesus healed them.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:32–MRK 1:34

## Mark 1:35 (id: 175308)

**What did Jesus do before the sun rose?**

Before the sun rose, Jesus went out to a solitary place and prayed there.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:35

## Mark 1:38–39 (id: 175309)

**What did Jesus tell Simon he had come to do?**

Jesus said that he had come to preach in the surrounding towns.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:38–MRK 1:39

## Mark 1:40–41 (id: 175310)

**What attitude did Jesus have toward the leper who begged Jesus to be healed?**

Jesus had pity on the leper and healed him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:40–MRK 1:41

## Mark 1:44 (id: 175311)

**What did Jesus tell the leper to do, and why?**

Jesus told the leper to go offer the sacrifices according to what Moses commanded. It would serve the community as a testimony that he was healed.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:44

## Mark 2:4 (id: 175312)

**What did the four men do who were carrying the paralyzed man?**

The men removed the roof of the house and lowered the paralyzed man to Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 2:4

## Mark 2:5 (id: 175313)

**What did Jesus say to the paralyzed man?**

Jesus said, “Child, your sins are forgiven”.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 2:5

## Mark 2:6–7 (id: 175314)

**Why did some of the scribes object to what Jesus had said?**

Some of the scribes reasoned that Jesus had blasphemed because only God can forgive sins.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 2:6–MRK 2:7

## Mark 2:10–12 (id: 175315)

**How did Jesus demonstrate that he had authority on earth to forgive sins?**

Jesus told the paralyzed man to take up his bed and go to his house, and the man did.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 2:10–MRK 2:12

## Mark 2:13–14 (id: 175316)

**What was Levi doing when Jesus told Levi to follow him?**

Levi was sitting at the tax\-collecting place when Jesus called him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 2:13–MRK 2:14

## Mark 2:15–16 (id: 175317)

**At Levi’s house, what was Jesus doing that offended the Pharisees?**

Jesus was dining with the sinful people and tax collectors.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 2:15–MRK 2:16

## Mark 2:17 (id: 175318)

**Who did Jesus say he had come to call?**

Jesus said he had come to call sinful people.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 2:17

## Mark 2:18 (id: 175319)

**What question did some people ask Jesus about fasting?**

They asked Jesus why his disciples did not fast when John’s disciples and the Pharisees’ disciples did fast.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 2:18

## Mark 2:19 (id: 175320)

**How did Jesus explain why his disciples were not fasting?**

Jesus said that while the bridegroom is still with the wedding attendants, they cannot fast.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 2:19

## Mark 2:23–24 (id: 175321)

**What did Jesus’ disciples do in some fields on the Sabbath which offended the Pharisees?**

Jesus’ disciples picked heads of grain and ate them on the Sabbath.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 2:23–MRK 2:24

## Mark 2:25–26 (id: 175322)

**What example did Jesus give of someone who needed and ate bread normally forbidden for them?**

Jesus gave the example of David who, out of need, ate the bread of the presence, normally reserved for the priests.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 2:25–MRK 2:26

## Mark 2:27 (id: 175323)

**For whom did Jesus say the Sabbath was made?**

Jesus said the Sabbath was made for people.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 2:27

## Mark 2:28 (id: 175324)

**What authority did Jesus claim for himself?**

Jesus said that he was Lord also of the Sabbath.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 2:28

## Mark 3:1–2 (id: 175325)

**Why were they watching Jesus on the Sabbath in the synagogue?**

They were watching Jesus to see if he would heal on the Sabbath, so they could accuse him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 3:1–MRK 3:2

## Mark 3:4 (id: 175326)

**What question did Jesus ask the people about the Sabbath?**

Jesus asked the people if it was lawful to do good, or to do harm on the Sabbath.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 3:4

## Mark 3:4 (#2) (id: 175327)

**How did the people respond to Jesus’ question?**

The people were silent.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 3:4

## Mark 3:5 (id: 175328)

**What then was Jesus’ attitude toward them?**

Jesus became angry with them.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 3:5

## Mark 3:6 (id: 175329)

**What did the Pharisees do when Jesus healed the man?**

The Pharisees went out and plotted to put Jesus to death.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 3:6

## Mark 3:7–8 (id: 175330)

**How many people followed Jesus as he went to the sea?**

A great crowd followed Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 3:7–MRK 3:8

## Mark 3:11 (id: 175331)

**What did the demons cry out when they saw Jesus?**

The demons cried out that Jesus was the Son of God.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 3:11

## Mark 3:14–15 (id: 175332)

**How many men did Jesus appoint as apostles, and what were they to do?**

Jesus appointed 12 apostles who were to be with him, preach, and have authority to cast out demons.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 3:14–MRK 3:15

## Mark 3:19 (id: 175333)

**Who was the apostle that would betray Jesus?**

The apostle that would betray Jesus was Judas Iscariot.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 3:19

## Mark 3:21 (id: 175334)

**What did Jesus’ family think about the crowds and the events surrounding Jesus?**

Jesus’ family thought that he was out of his mind.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 3:21

## Mark 3:22 (id: 175335)

**What accusation did the scribes make against Jesus?**

The scribes accused Jesus of driving out demons by the ruler of demons.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 3:22

## Mark 3:23–24 (id: 175336)

**What was Jesus’ response to the scribes’ accusation?**

Jesus responded that no kingdom divided against itself can stand.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 3:23–MRK 3:24

## Mark 3:28–29 (id: 175337)

**What sin did Jesus say cannot be forgiven?**

Jesus said that blasphemy against the Holy Spirit cannot be forgiven.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 3:28–MRK 3:29

## Mark 3:33–35 (id: 175338)

**Who did Jesus say were his mother and brothers?**

Jesus said that his mother and brothers were those who do the will of God.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 3:33–MRK 3:35

## Mark 4:1 (id: 175339)

**Why did Jesus get into a boat to teach?**

Jesus got into a boat to sit and teach because a very large crowd had gathered around him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:1

## Mark 4:4 (id: 175340)

**What happened to the seeds sown on the road?**

The birds came and devoured them.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:4

## Mark 4:6 (id: 175341)

**What happened to the seeds sown on the rocky ground when the sun rose?**

The seedlings withered away because they had no root.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:6

## Mark 4:7 (id: 175342)

**What happened to the seeds sown among thorn plants?**

The thorn plants choked them.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:7

## Mark 4:8 (id: 175343)

**What happened to the seeds sown in the good soil?**

The seeds produced grain, yielding 30, 60, and some, 100 times what was planted.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:8

## Mark 4:11 (id: 175344)

**What did Jesus say was given to the Twelve, but not to those outside?**

Jesus said the mystery of the kingdom of God was given to the Twelve, but not to those outside.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:11

## Mark 4:14 (id: 175345)

**In Jesus’ parable, what is the seed?**

The seed is the word of God.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:14

## Mark 4:15 (id: 175346)

**What does the seed sown on the road represent?**

It represents those who hear the word, but immediately Satan takes it away.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:15

## Mark 4:16–17 (id: 175347)

**What does the seed sown on the rocky ground represent?**

It represents those who hear the word with joy, but when persecution comes, they stumble.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:16–MRK 4:17

## Mark 4:18–19 (id: 175348)

**What does the seed sown among thorn plants represent?**

It represents those who hear the word, but the cares of the world choke the word.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:18–MRK 4:19

## Mark 4:20 (id: 175349)

**What does the seed sown in the good soil represent?**

It represents those who hear the word, receive it, and produce fruit.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:20

## Mark 4:22 (id: 175350)

**What did Jesus say would happen to the hidden and secret things?**

Jesus said that the hidden and secret things would be brought into the light.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:22

## Mark 4:26–27 (id: 175351)

**In what way is the kingdom of God like a man who casts his seed upon the ground?**

The man casts the seed, and it grows, but he does not know how, then when the harvest is ripe he gathers it.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:26–MRK 4:27

## Mark 4:30–32 (id: 175352)

**In what way is the kingdom of God like a mustard seed?**

The mustard seed begins as the smallest of seeds, yet grows into a great plant where many birds can make their nests.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:30–MRK 4:32

## Mark 4:35–37 (id: 175353)

**What happened as the disciples and Jesus crossed the lake?**

A great storm began, threatening to fill the boat with water.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:35–MRK 4:37

## Mark 4:38 (id: 175354)

**What was Jesus doing at this time in the boat?**

Jesus was sleeping.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:38

## Mark 4:38 (#2) (id: 175355)

**What question did the disciples ask Jesus?**

The disciples asked Jesus if he cared that they were about to die.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:38

## Mark 4:39 (id: 175356)

**What did Jesus then do?**

Jesus rebuked the wind and calmed the sea.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:39

## Mark 4:41 (id: 175357)

**After Jesus did this, what was the response of the disciples?**

The disciples were filled with great fear and wondered who Jesus was, that the wind and sea obeyed him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 4:41

## Mark 5:1–2 (id: 175358)

**Who met Jesus when they came to the region of the Gerasenes?**

A man with an unclean spirit met Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:1–MRK 5:2

## Mark 5:4 (id: 175359)

**What had happened when people tried to restrain this man with chains?**

When people tried to restrain this man with chains, he tore the chains apart.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:4

## Mark 5:7 (id: 175360)

**What title did the unclean spirit give Jesus?**

The unclean spirit called Jesus the Son of the Most High God.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:7

## Mark 5:8 (id: 175361)

**What did Jesus say to the unclean spirit in the man?**

Jesus said, “Come out of the man, you unclean spirit”.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:8

## Mark 5:9 (id: 175362)

**What was the name of the unclean spirit?**

The unclean spirit’s name was Legion, because there were many.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:9

## Mark 5:13 (id: 175363)

**What happened when Jesus cast out the unclean spirit from the man?**

The spirits came out and entered a herd of pigs, which ran down a steep hill and drowned in the lake.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:13

## Mark 5:15 (id: 175364)

**After the unclean spirit was cast out, what was the condition of the man?**

The man was sitting with Jesus, clothed and in his right mind.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:15

## Mark 5:17 (id: 175365)

**What did the people of the region ask Jesus to do?**

The people asked Jesus to leave their region.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:17

## Mark 5:19 (id: 175366)

**What did Jesus tell the man who had lived in the tombs to now do?**

Jesus told the man to tell his people what the Lord had done for him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:19

## Mark 5:22–23 (id: 175367)

**What request did Jairus, the synagogue leader, make of Jesus?**

Jairus asked Jesus to come with him to lay hands on his daughter, who was near death.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:22–MRK 5:23

## Mark 5:25 (id: 175368)

**What was the problem with the woman who touched Jesus’ cloak?**

The woman had suffered with a discharge of blood for 12 years.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:25

## Mark 5:28 (id: 175369)

**Why did the woman touch Jesus’ cloak?**

The woman thought that if she just touched Jesus’ clothes, she would be healed.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:28

## Mark 5:30 (id: 175370)

**What did Jesus do when the woman touched his cloak?**

Jesus knew that power had gone out from him so he asked who touched his clothes.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:30

## Mark 5:32 (id: 175371)

**What did Jesus do after the woman touched his cloak?**

Jesus looked around to see who had touched him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:32

## Mark 5:34 (id: 175372)

**When the woman told Jesus all the truth, what did Jesus say to her?**

Jesus told her that her faith had made her well, and to go in peace.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:34

## Mark 5:35 (id: 175373)

**What was the condition of Jairus’ daughter when Jesus arrived at the house?**

Jairus’ daughter was dead.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:35

## Mark 5:36 (id: 175374)

**What did Jesus tell Jairus at this time?**

Jesus told Jairus to not be afraid, but to just believe.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:36

## Mark 5:37 (id: 175375)

**Which disciples went with Jesus into the room where the child was?**

Peter, James, and John went with Jesus into the room.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:37

## Mark 5:40 (id: 175376)

**What did the people in the house do when Jesus said Jairus’ daughter was only sleeping?**

The people laughed at Jesus when he said that Jairus’ daughter was only sleeping.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:40

## Mark 5:42 (id: 175377)

**When the child got up and walked, how did the people react?**

The people were greatly overcome and astonished.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 5:42

## Mark 6:2 (id: 175378)

**Why were the people of Jesus’ home town shocked about him?**

The people did not know from where he got his teachings, his wisdom, and his miracles.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:2

## Mark 6:4 (id: 175379)

**Where did Jesus say a prophet is without honor?**

Jesus said a prophet is without honor in his home town, among his relatives, and in his own household.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:4

## Mark 6:6 (id: 175380)

**What amazed Jesus about the people in his home town?**

Jesus was amazed by the unbelief of the people in his home town.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:6

## Mark 6:7 (id: 175381)

**What authority did Jesus give the Twelve as he sent them out?**

Jesus gave the Twelve authority over unclean spirits.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:7

## Mark 6:8–9 (id: 175382)

**What did the Twelve take with them on their journey?**

The Twelve took a staff, sandals, and one tunic.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:8–MRK 6:9

## Mark 6:11 (id: 175383)

**What did Jesus tell the Twelve to do if a place did not receive them?**

Jesus told the Twelve to shake off the dust under their feet as a testimony against them.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:11

## Mark 6:14–15 (id: 175384)

**Who did the people suppose Jesus was?**

The people supposed that Jesus was John the Baptizer or Elijah or a prophet.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:14–MRK 6:15

## Mark 6:18 (id: 175385)

**What had John the Baptizer told Herod he was doing unlawfully?**

John had told Herod it was unlawful for Herod to marry his brother’s wife.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:18

## Mark 6:20 (id: 175386)

**How did Herod react when he heard John preach?**

Herod became upset when he heard John preach, but he was still glad to hear him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:20

## Mark 6:23 (id: 175387)

**What oath did Herod swear to Herodias's daughter?**

Herod swore that she could have whatever she asked of him, up to half of his kingdom.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:23

## Mark 6:25 (id: 175388)

**For what did Herodias's daughter ask?**

Herodias's daughter asked for the head of John the Baptizer on a platter.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:25

## Mark 6:26 (id: 175389)

**How did Herod react to Herodias’s daughter's request?**

Herod became very sorry but did not refuse her request, because of the oaths he had made in front of his guests.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:26

## Mark 6:33 (id: 175390)

**What happened when Jesus and the apostles tried to go away by themselves to rest?**

Many people recognized them and ran to arrive there before Jesus and the apostles.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:33

## Mark 6:34 (id: 175391)

**What was Jesus’ attitude toward the crowd that was waiting for them?**

Jesus had compassion on them because they were like sheep without a shepherd.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:34

## Mark 6:37 (id: 175392)

**When asked by Jesus, what did the disciples think they would have to do to feed the people?**

The disciples thought they would have to go and buy 200 denarii worth of bread.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:37

## Mark 6:38 (id: 175393)

**What food did the disciples already have with them?**

The disciples already had five loaves and two fish with them.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:38

## Mark 6:41 (id: 175394)

**What did Jesus do as he took the loaves and fish?**

As he took the loaves and fish, Jesus looked up to heaven, blessed and broke the loaves, and gave them to his disciples.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:41

## Mark 6:43 (id: 175395)

**How much food was left after everyone ate?**

There were 12 baskets of bread, and pieces of fish left after everyone ate.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:43

## Mark 6:44 (id: 175396)

**How many men had been fed?**

There were 5,000 men that had been fed.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:44

## Mark 6:48 (id: 175397)

**How did Jesus come to the disciples on the lake?**

Jesus came to the disciples walking on the lake.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:48

## Mark 6:50 (id: 175398)

**What did Jesus tell the disciples when they saw him?**

Jesus told the disciples to be brave and to not be afraid.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:50

## Mark 6:52 (id: 175399)

**Why did the disciples not understand about the miracle of the loaves?**

The disciples did not understand about the miracle of the loaves because their minds were slow to understand.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:52

## Mark 6:55 (id: 175400)

**What did the people of the region do when they recognized Jesus?**

The people brought the sick on stretchers to Jesus wherever they heard he was coming.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:55

## Mark 6:56 (id: 175401)

**What happened to those who just touched the fringe of Jesus’ garment?**

Those who just touched the fringe of Jesus’ garment were healed.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 6:56

## Mark 7:2 (id: 175402)

**What were some of Jesus’ disciples doing that offended the Pharisees and scribes?**

Some of the disciples were eating with unwashed hands.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 7:2

## Mark 7:3–4 (id: 175403)

**Whose tradition was it that hands, cups, pots, and copper vessels be washed before eating?**

It was the tradition of the elders that hands, cups, pots, and copper vessels be washed before eating.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 7:3–MRK 7:4

## Mark 7:8–9 (id: 175404)

**What did Jesus say to the Pharisees and scribes about their teaching on the issue of washing?**

Jesus said that the Pharisees and scribes taught the rules of men while abandoning the commandment of God.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 7:8–MRK 7:9

## Mark 7:11–13 (id: 175405)

**How did the Pharisees and scribes void the commandment of God which says to honor your father and mother?**

They voided God’s commandment by telling people to give to them as Corban the money that would have helped their father and mother.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 7:11–MRK 7:13

## Mark 7:15 (id: 175406)

**What did Jesus say does not defile a person?**

Jesus said that nothing from outside of a person can defile him when it enters into him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 7:15

## Mark 7:15 (#2) (id: 175407)

**What did Jesus say defiles a person?**

Jesus said that what comes out of a person defiles him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 7:15

## Mark 7:18–19 (id: 175408)

**What did Jesus say does not defile a person?**

Jesus said that nothing from outside of a person can defile him when it enters into him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 7:18–MRK 7:19

## Mark 7:19 (id: 175409)

**What kinds of foods did Jesus declare to be clean?**

Jesus declared all foods to be clean.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 7:19

## Mark 7:20–23 (id: 175410)

**What did Jesus say defiles a person?**

Jesus said that what comes out of a person defiles him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 7:20–MRK 7:23

## Mark 7:21–22 (id: 175411)

**What are the things that Jesus said can come out of a person to defile him?**

Jesus said that evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, and folly can come out of a person to defile him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 7:21–MRK 7:22

## Mark 7:25–26 (id: 175412)

**Was the woman whose daughter had an unclean spirit a Jew or a Greek?**

The woman whose daughter had an unclean spirit was a Greek.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 7:25–MRK 7:26

## Mark 7:28 (id: 175413)

**How did the woman respond when Jesus told her that it was not right to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs?**

The woman said that even the dogs under the table eat the children’s crumbs.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 7:28

## Mark 7:29–30 (id: 175414)

**What did Jesus do for the woman?**

Jesus cast the demon out of the woman’s daughter.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 7:29–MRK 7:30

## Mark 7:33–34 (id: 175415)

**When the man who was deaf and had a speech impediment was brought to Jesus, what did he do to heal him?**

Jesus put his fingers in the man’s ears, spit and touched his tongue, then looked to heaven and said, “Open!”

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 7:33–MRK 7:34

## Mark 7:36 (id: 175416)

**What did the people do when Jesus told them to tell no one about his healings?**

The more Jesus commanded them to be quiet, the more they talked about it.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 7:36

## Mark 8:1–2 (id: 175417)

**What concern did Jesus state about the great crowd that had been following him?**

Jesus stated that he was concerned the great crowd had nothing to eat.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:1–MRK 8:2

## Mark 8:5 (id: 175418)

**How many loaves did the disciples have with them?**

The disciples had seven loaves with them.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:5

## Mark 8:6 (id: 175419)

**What did Jesus do with the disciples’ loaves?**

Jesus gave thanks, broke the loaves, and gave them to his disciples to serve.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:6

## Mark 8:8 (id: 175420)

**How much food remained after everyone had eaten?**

There were seven baskets of food remaining after everyone had eaten.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:8

## Mark 8:9 (id: 175421)

**How many people ate and were satisfied?**

There were about 4,000 men who ate and were satisfied.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:9

## Mark 8:11 (id: 175422)

**To test him, what did the Pharisees want Jesus to do?**

The Pharisees wanted Jesus to give them a sign from heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:11

## Mark 8:15 (id: 175423)

**About what did Jesus warn his disciples concerning the Pharisees?**

Jesus warned his disciples to be on guard against the yeast of the Pharisees.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:15

## Mark 8:16 (id: 175424)

**About what did the disciples think Jesus was talking?**

The disciples thought Jesus was talking about the fact that they had forgotten to bring bread.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:16

## Mark 8:19 (id: 175425)

**Jesus reminded his disciples that what had happened when Jesus had broken five loaves?**

Jesus reminded them that when he had broken five loaves, 5,000 people had been fed and 12 baskets full of broken pieces had been taken up.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:19

## Mark 8:23 (id: 175426)

**What two things did Jesus first do to the blind man in order to restore his sight?**

Jesus first spat on his eyes and laid his hands upon him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:23

## Mark 8:25 (id: 175427)

**What third thing did Jesus do to the blind man in order to completely restore his sight?**

Jesus laid his hands upon his eyes again.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:25

## Mark 8:28 (id: 175428)

**Who were the people saying that Jesus was?**

The people were saying that Jesus was John the Baptizer, Elijah, or one of the prophets.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:28

## Mark 8:29 (id: 175429)

**Who did Peter say that Jesus was?**

Peter said that Jesus was the Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:29

## Mark 8:31 (id: 175430)

**About what future events did Jesus begin to teach his disciples clearly?**

Jesus taught his disciples that the Son of Man must suffer, be rejected, be killed, and be raised after three days.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:31

## Mark 8:33 (id: 175431)

**What did Jesus say when Peter began to rebuke him?**

Jesus said to Peter, “Get behind me Satan! You do not care for the things of God, but for the things of people”.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:33

## Mark 8:34 (id: 175432)

**What did Jesus say anyone who wants to follow him must do?**

Jesus said that anyone who wants to follow him must deny himself, take up his cross, and follow Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:34

## Mark 8:36 (id: 175433)

**What did Jesus say about a person’s desire to gain the things of the world?**

Jesus said, “What does it profit a person to gain the whole world and then forfeit his life?”

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:36

## Mark 8:38 (id: 175434)

**What did Jesus say he would do concerning those who are ashamed of him and his words?**

Jesus said that at his coming he would be ashamed of those who were ashamed of him and his words.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:38

## Mark 9:1 (id: 175435)

**Who did Jesus say would see the kingdom of God coming with power?**

Jesus said that some standing there with him would not die before they saw the kingdom of God coming with power.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:1

## Mark 9:2–3 (id: 175436)

**What happened to Jesus when Peter, James, and John went up a high mountain with him?**

Jesus was transfigured and his garments became radiantly brilliant.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:2–MRK 9:3

## Mark 9:4 (id: 175437)

**Who was talking with Jesus on the mountain?**

Elijah and Moses were talking with Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:4

## Mark 9:7 (id: 175438)

**On the mountain, what did the voice from the cloud say?**

The voice said, “This is my beloved Son. Listen to him”.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:7

## Mark 9:9 (id: 175439)

**What did Jesus command the disciples about what they had seen on the mountain?**

Jesus commanded them to tell no one what they had seen, until the Son of Man had risen from the dead.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:9

## Mark 9:11–13 (id: 175440)

**What did Jesus say about Elijah’s coming?**

Jesus said that Elijah does come first to restore all things, and that Elijah had already come.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:11–MRK 9:13

## Mark 9:17–18 (id: 175441)

**What were the disciples unable to do for the father and his son?**

The disciples were unable to drive out the evil spirit from the father’s son.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:17–MRK 9:18

## Mark 9:22 (id: 175442)

**Into what did the evil spirit throw the boy to try to destroy him?**

The evil spirit threw the boy into the fire or into the waters to try to destroy him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:22

## Mark 9:23–24 (id: 175443)

**How did the father respond when Jesus said all things are possible for the one who believes?**

The father responded, “I believe! Help my unbelief!”

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:23–MRK 9:24

## Mark 9:28–29 (id: 175444)

**Why were the disciples unable to cast out the mute and deaf spirit in the boy?**

The disciples were unable to cast out the spirit, because it could not be cast out except by prayer.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:28–MRK 9:29

## Mark 9:31 (id: 175445)

**What did Jesus tell his disciples would happen to him?**

Jesus told them he would be put to death, then after three days he would rise again.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:31

## Mark 9:33–34 (id: 175446)

**What were the disciples arguing about along the way?**

The disciples were arguing about who among them was the greatest.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:33–MRK 9:34

## Mark 9:35 (id: 175447)

**Who did Jesus say is first?**

Jesus said that he is first who is servant of all.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:35

## Mark 9:36–37 (id: 175448)

**When someone receives a little child in Jesus’ name, who are they also receiving?**

When someone receives a little child in Jesus’ name, they are also receiving Jesus and the one who sent Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:36–MRK 9:37

## Mark 9:42 (id: 175449)

**What would be better for someone who causes a little one who believes in Jesus to stumble?**

It would be better for that one if a millstone were tied around his neck and he was thrown into the sea.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:42

## Mark 9:47 (id: 175450)

**What did Jesus say to do with your eye if it causes you to stumble?**

Jesus said to tear out your eye if it causes you to stumble.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:47

## Mark 9:48 (id: 175451)

**What did Jesus say happens in hell?**

Jesus said that in hell the worm does not die, and the fire is not put out.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 9:48

## Mark 10:2 (id: 175452)

**What question did the Pharisees ask Jesus in order to test him?**

The Pharisees asked Jesus if it was lawful for a husband to divorce his wife.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:2

## Mark 10:4 (id: 175453)

**What commandment had Moses given the Jews concerning divorce?**

Moses had allowed a man to write a certificate of divorce and then send his wife away.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:4

## Mark 10:5 (id: 175454)

**Why had Moses given the Jews this commandment concerning divorce?**

Moses had given this commandment to the Jews because of their hard hearts.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:5

## Mark 10:6 (id: 175455)

**To what event in history did Jesus refer when telling the Pharisees about God’s original design for marriage?**

Jesus referred to the creation of male and female at the beginning when telling about God’s original design for marriage.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:6

## Mark 10:7–8 (id: 175456)

**What did Jesus say the two people, the man and his wife, become when they are married?**

Jesus said that the two become one flesh.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:7–MRK 10:8

## Mark 10:9 (id: 175457)

**What did Jesus say about what God joins together in marriage?**

Jesus said that what God joins together, let no man tear apart.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:9

## Mark 10:13–14 (id: 175458)

**What was Jesus’ reaction when the disciples rebuked those bringing little children to him?**

Jesus was angry with the disciples and told them to permit the little children to come to him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:13–MRK 10:14

## Mark 10:15 (id: 175459)

**How did Jesus say the kingdom of God must be received in order to enter it?**

Jesus said the kingdom of God must be received as a little child in order to enter it.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:15

## Mark 10:19 (id: 175460)

**What did Jesus first tell the man he must do to inherit eternal life?**

Jesus told the man he must not kill, not commit adultery, not steal, not testify falsely, not defraud, and must honor his father and mother.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:19

## Mark 10:21 (id: 175461)

**What additional commandment did Jesus then give the man?**

Jesus then commanded the man to sell all that he had and to follow him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:21

## Mark 10:22 (id: 175462)

**How did the man react when Jesus gave him this commandment, and why?**

The man was sorrowful and walked away, for he had many possessions.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:22

## Mark 10:23–25 (id: 175463)

**Who did Jesus say had great difficulty entering the kingdom of God?**

Jesus said that the rich had great difficulty entering the kingdom of God.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:23–MRK 10:25

## Mark 10:26–27 (id: 175464)

**How did Jesus say even a rich person could be saved?**

Jesus said that with people it is impossible, but with God all things are possible.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:26–MRK 10:27

## Mark 10:29–30 (id: 175465)

**What did Jesus say anyone would receive who had left house, family, and lands for Jesus’ sake?**

Jesus said they would receive a hundred times as much in this world, with persecutions, and eternal life in the world to come.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:29–MRK 10:30

## Mark 10:32 (id: 175466)

**On what road were Jesus and the disciples traveling?**

Jesus and the disciples were traveling on the road going up to Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:32

## Mark 10:33–34 (id: 175467)

**What did Jesus tell his disciples would happen to him in Jerusalem?**

Jesus told his disciples that he would be condemned to death and delivered over to the Gentiles.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:33–MRK 10:34

## Mark 10:35–37 (id: 175468)

**What request did James and John make to Jesus?**

James and John requested to sit on Jesus’ right and left hand with him in glory.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:35–MRK 10:37

## Mark 10:39 (id: 175469)

**What did Jesus say that James and John would endure?**

Jesus said that James and John would endure the cup Jesus would drink, and the baptism with which Jesus would be baptized.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:39

## Mark 10:40 (id: 175470)

**Did Jesus grant the request of James and John?**

No. Jesus said that the seats at his right and left hand were not his to give.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:40

## Mark 10:42 (id: 175471)

**How did Jesus say the rulers of the Gentiles treat their subjects?**

Jesus said that the rulers of the Gentiles dominate their subjects.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:42

## Mark 10:43–44 (id: 175472)

**How did Jesus say those who wish to be great among the disciples must live?**

Jesus said those who wish to be great among the disciples must be servant of all.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:43–MRK 10:44

## Mark 10:48 (id: 175473)

**What did the blind man Bartimaeus do when many rebuked him, telling him to be quiet?**

Bartimaeus cried out all the more, “Son of David, have mercy on me!”

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:48

## Mark 10:52 (id: 175474)

**What did Jesus say had healed Bartimaeus of his blindness?**

Jesus said that Bartimaeus’ faith had healed him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:52

## Mark 11:2 (id: 175475)

**What did Jesus send two of his disciples to do in the village opposite them?**

Jesus sent them to bring a colt to him that had never been ridden.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:2

## Mark 11:5–6 (id: 175476)

**What happened when the disciples untied the colt?**

Some people asked the disciples what they were doing, so they spoke to the people as Jesus told them, and the people let them go their way.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:5–MRK 11:6

## Mark 11:8 (id: 175477)

**What did the people spread on the road as Jesus rode on the colt?**

On the road the people spread their garments and branches they had cut from the fields.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:8

## Mark 11:10 (id: 175478)

**What coming kingdom were the people shouting about as Jesus rode toward Jerusalem?**

The people were shouting that the kingdom of their father David was coming.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:10

## Mark 11:11 (id: 175479)

**What did Jesus do when he entered the temple area?**

Jesus looked around and then went out to Bethany.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:11

## Mark 11:14 (id: 175480)

**What did Jesus do when he saw the fig tree with no fruit on it?**

Jesus said to the fig tree, “No one will ever eat fruit from you”.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:14

## Mark 11:15–16 (id: 175481)

**What did Jesus do when he entered the temple area this time?**

Jesus cast out the sellers and purchasers and would not allow anyone to carry merchandise through the temple.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:15–MRK 11:16

## Mark 11:17 (id: 175482)

**What did Jesus say the temple was supposed to be, according to Scripture?**

Jesus said that the temple was supposed to be a house of prayer for all the nations.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:17

## Mark 11:17 (#2) (id: 175483)

**What did Jesus say the chief priests and scribes had made the temple?**

Jesus said they had made the temple a den of robbers.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:17

## Mark 11:18 (id: 175484)

**What were the chief priests and scribes trying to do to Jesus?**

The chief priests and scribes were trying to kill Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:18

## Mark 11:20 (id: 175485)

**What happened to the fig tree to which Jesus had spoken?**

The fig tree to which Jesus had spoken withered away to its roots.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:20

## Mark 11:24 (id: 175486)

**What did Jesus say about everything we ask for in prayer?**

Jesus said that everything we ask for in prayer, believe that we have received it, and it will be ours.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:24

## Mark 11:25 (id: 175487)

**What did Jesus say we must do so that the Father in heaven will also forgive you?**

Jesus said we must forgive whatever we have against anyone so that the Father will also forgive us.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:25

## Mark 11:27–28 (id: 175488)

**In the temple, what did the chief priests, scribes, and elders want to know from Jesus?**

They wanted to know by what authority he did the things he was doing.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:27–MRK 11:28

## Mark 11:29–30 (id: 175489)

**What question did Jesus ask the chief priests, scribes, and elders?**

Jesus asked them if John’s baptism was from heaven or from men.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:29–MRK 11:30

## Mark 11:31 (id: 175490)

**Why did the chief priests, scribes, and elders not want to answer that John’s baptism was from heaven?**

They did not want to give this answer because Jesus would ask why they didn’t believe John.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:31

## Mark 11:32 (id: 175491)

**Why did the chief priests, scribes, and elders not want to answer that John’s baptism was from men?**

They did not want to give this answer because they feared the people, who all believed that John was a prophet.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 11:32

## Mark 12:1 (id: 175492)

**After building and leasing the vineyard, what did the owner do?**

After building and leasing the vineyard, the owner went away on a journey.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:1

## Mark 12:5 (id: 175493)

**What did the vine dressers do to the many servants that the owner sent to receive the fruit of the vineyard?**

The vine dressers beat some and killed some of the many servants.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:5

## Mark 12:6 (id: 175494)

**Who did the owner send last to the vine dressers?**

The owner sent his beloved son last.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:6

## Mark 12:8 (id: 175495)

**What did the vine dressers do with the one sent last by the owner?**

The vine dressers seized him, killed him, and threw him out of the vineyard.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:8

## Mark 12:9 (id: 175496)

**What will the owner of the vineyard do to the vine dressers?**

The owner of the vineyard will come and destroy the vine dressers and give the vineyard to others.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:9

## Mark 12:10 (id: 175497)

**In the scripture, what happens to the stone which the builders rejected?**

The stone which the builders rejected has been made the cornerstone.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:10

## Mark 12:14 (id: 175498)

**What question did the Pharisees and some of the Herodians ask Jesus?**

They asked him if it was lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:14

## Mark 12:17 (id: 175499)

**How did Jesus answer their question?**

Jesus said they should give to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s and give to God the things that are God’s.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:17

## Mark 12:18 (id: 175500)

**In what did the Sadducees not believe?**

The Sadducees did not believe in the resurrection.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:18

## Mark 12:22 (id: 175501)

**In the story told by the Sadducees, how many husbands did the woman have?**

The woman had seven husbands.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:22

## Mark 12:23 (id: 175502)

**What question did the Sadducees ask Jesus about the woman?**

They asked which of the men would be the woman’s husband in the resurrection.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:23

## Mark 12:24 (id: 175503)

**What reason did Jesus give the Sadducees for their error?**

Jesus said that the Sadducees did not know the scriptures nor the power of God.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:24

## Mark 12:25 (id: 175504)

**What was Jesus’ answer to the Sadducees’ question about the woman?**

Jesus said that in the resurrection, men and women will not marry, but will be like angels.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:25

## Mark 12:26–27 (id: 175505)

**How did Jesus show from the scriptures that there is a resurrection?**

Jesus quoted from the book of Moses, where God says that he is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob \- all who must then be still alive.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:26–MRK 12:27

## Mark 12:29–30 (id: 175506)

**What commandment did Jesus say is most important?**

Jesus said that to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength is the most important commandment.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:29–MRK 12:30

## Mark 12:31 (id: 175507)

**What commandment did Jesus say is second?**

Jesus said that to love your neighbor as yourself is the second commandment.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:31

## Mark 12:35–37 (id: 175508)

**What question did Jesus ask about the Christ?**

Jesus asked how David could call the Christ Lord when the Christ is the son of David.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:35–MRK 12:37

## Mark 12:38–40 (id: 175509)

**What did Jesus tell the people to beware of concerning the scribes?**

Jesus said that the scribes desire to be honored by men, but they devour widows’ houses and make long prayers for people to see.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:38–MRK 12:40

## Mark 12:44 (id: 175510)

**Why did Jesus say that the poor widow had put in more than all who contributed to the offering box?**

Jesus said she had contributed more because she gave out of her poverty while the others gave out of their abundance.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:44

## Mark 13:2 (id: 175511)

**What did Jesus say would happen to the wonderful stones and buildings of the temple?**

Jesus said that not one stone would be left on another.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:2

## Mark 13:4 (id: 175512)

**What question did the disciples then ask Jesus?**

The disciples asked Jesus when these things would happen, and what would be the sign.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:4

## Mark 13:5–6 (id: 175513)

**About what did Jesus say the disciples must be careful?**

Jesus said the disciples must be careful that no one lead them astray.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:5–MRK 13:6

## Mark 13:7–8 (id: 175514)

**What did Jesus say would be the beginnings of birth pains?**

Jesus said the beginning of birth pains would be wars, rumors of wars, earthquakes, and famines.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:7–MRK 13:8

## Mark 13:9 (id: 175515)

**What did Jesus say would happen to the disciples?**

Jesus said that the disciples would be delivered to councils, beaten in synagogues, and would stand before governors and kings as a testimony.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:9

## Mark 13:10 (id: 175516)

**What did Jesus say must happen first?**

Jesus said the gospel must be preached to all the nations first.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:10

## Mark 13:12 (id: 175517)

**What did Jesus say would happen between family members?**

Jesus said that one family member would deliver up another family member to death.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:12

## Mark 13:13 (id: 175518)

**Who did Jesus say would be saved?**

Jesus said that whoever endures to the end would be saved.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:13

## Mark 13:14 (id: 175519)

**What did Jesus say those in Judea should do when they see the abomination of desolation?**

Jesus said that those in Judea should flee to the mountains when they see the abomination of desolation.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:14

## Mark 13:20 (id: 175520)

**What did Jesus say the Lord would do for the sake of the elect, so that they would be saved?**

Jesus said the Lord would shorten the days of tribulation for the sake of the elect.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:20

## Mark 13:22 (id: 175521)

**Who did Jesus say would arise to deceive people?**

Jesus said that false Christs and false prophets would arise to deceive people.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:22

## Mark 13:24–25 (id: 175522)

**What will happen to the lights and powers in the heavens after the tribulation of those days?**

The sun and moon will be darkened, the stars will fall from the sky. The powers in the heavens will be shaken.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:24–MRK 13:25

## Mark 13:26 (id: 175523)

**What will the people see in the clouds?**

They will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds with great power and glory.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:26

## Mark 13:27 (id: 175524)

**What will the Son of Man do when he comes?**

The Son of Man will gather his elect from the ends of the earth and the sky.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:27

## Mark 13:30 (id: 175525)

**What did Jesus say would not pass away until all of these things occurred?**

Jesus said that this generation would not pass away until all of these things occurred.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:30

## Mark 13:31 (id: 175526)

**What did Jesus say would never pass away?**

Jesus said that his words would never pass away.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:31

## Mark 13:32 (id: 175527)

**When did Jesus say all these things would happen?**

Jesus said that no one knows the day or hour except the Father.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:32

## Mark 13:33 (id: 175528)

**What command did Jesus give his disciples regarding when the time is?**

Jesus told his disciples to be alert, watch and pray.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:33

## Mark 13:35 (id: 175529)

**What command did Jesus give his disciples regarding his coming?**

Jesus told his disciples to be stay alert as they await his coming.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:35

## Mark 13:37 (id: 175530)

**What command did Jesus give his disciples regarding his coming?**

Jesus told his disciples to be alert and watch.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 13:37

## Mark 14:1 (id: 175531)

**What were the chief priests and scribes considering how to do?**

They were considering how to stealthily arrest Jesus and then kill him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:1

## Mark 14:2 (id: 175532)

**Why did the chief priests and scribes not want to act during the Feast of Unleavened Bread?**

They were worried that a riot would arise among the people.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:2

## Mark 14:3 (id: 175533)

**What did a woman do to Jesus at the house of Simon the leper?**

A woman broke a vial of costly liquid and poured it on Jesus’ head.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:3

## Mark 14:5 (id: 175534)

**For what were some rebuking the woman?**

Some were rebuking the woman for not selling the perfume and giving the money to the poor.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:5

## Mark 14:8 (id: 175535)

**What did Jesus say the woman had done for him?**

Jesus said the woman had anointed his body for burial.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:8

## Mark 14:9 (id: 175536)

**What promise did Jesus make about what the woman had done?**

Jesus promised that wherever the gospel was preached in the whole world, what the woman had done would be spoken of in memory of her.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:9

## Mark 14:10 (id: 175537)

**Why did Judas Iscariot go away to the chief priests?**

Judas Iscariot went away to the chief priests so that he might deliver Jesus to them.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:10

## Mark 14:12–15 (id: 175538)

**How did the disciples find the place where they would all eat the Passover?**

Jesus told them to go into the city and follow a man carrying a pitcher of water, and then ask him where the guest room was that they would use to eat the Passover.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:12–MRK 14:15

## Mark 14:18 (id: 175539)

**What did Jesus say as they were reclining at the table and eating?**

Jesus said that one of the disciples eating with him would betray him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:18

## Mark 14:20 (id: 175540)

**Which disciple did Jesus say would betray him?**

Jesus said that the disciple dipping bread with him in the bowl would betray him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:20

## Mark 14:21 (id: 175541)

**What did Jesus say about the destiny of the disciple who betrayed him?**

Jesus said that it would have been better for him if he had not been born.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:21

## Mark 14:22 (id: 175542)

**What did Jesus say as he gave the disciples the broken bread?**

Jesus said, “Take this. This is my body.”

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:22

## Mark 14:24 (id: 175543)

**What did Jesus say as he gave the disciples the cup?**

Jesus said, “This is my blood of the covenant, the blood that is poured out for many.”

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:24

## Mark 14:25 (id: 175544)

**When did Jesus say he would again drink of this fruit of the vine?**

Jesus said he would again drink of this fruit of the vine on the day when he drank it anew in the kingdom of God.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:25

## Mark 14:27 (id: 175545)

**At the Mount of Olives, what did Jesus predict about his disciples?**

Jesus predicted that his disciples would all fall away because of him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:27

## Mark 14:30 (id: 175546)

**What did Jesus tell Peter after Peter said he would never fall away?**

Jesus told Peter that before the rooster crowed twice, Peter would deny Jesus three times.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:30

## Mark 14:32–34 (id: 175547)

**What did Jesus tell his three disciples to do while he prayed?**

Jesus told them to remain there and watch.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:32–MRK 14:34

## Mark 14:35 (id: 175548)

**For what did Jesus pray?**

Jesus prayed that this hour might pass from him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:35

## Mark 14:36 (id: 175549)

**What was Jesus willing to accept as an answer to his prayer to the Father?**

Jesus was willing to accept whatever the Father’s will was for him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:36

## Mark 14:37 (id: 175550)

**What did Jesus find when he returned to the three disciples?**

Jesus found the three disciples sleeping.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:37

## Mark 14:40 (id: 175551)

**What did Jesus find the second time he returned from praying?**

Jesus found the three disciples sleeping.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:40

## Mark 14:41 (id: 175552)

**What did Jesus find the third time he returned from praying?**

Jesus found the three disciples sleeping.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:41

## Mark 14:44–45 (id: 175553)

**What sign did Judas give to show the guards which person was Jesus?**

Judas kissed Jesus to show which person was Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:44–MRK 14:45

## Mark 14:48–49 (id: 175554)

**What did Jesus say was being done in his arrest to fulfill scripture?**

Jesus said that scripture was being fulfilled because they came to arrest him like a robber, with swords and clubs.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:48–MRK 14:49

## Mark 14:50 (id: 175555)

**What did those with Jesus do when Jesus was arrested?**

Those with Jesus left him and fled.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:50

## Mark 14:51–52 (id: 175556)

**What did a young man who was following Jesus do when Jesus was arrested?**

The young man left his linen garment there and ran away naked.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:51–MRK 14:52

## Mark 14:53–54 (id: 175557)

**Where was Peter as Jesus was taken to the high priest?**

Peter sat among the guards, near a fire to keep warm.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:53–MRK 14:54

## Mark 14:55–56 (id: 175558)

**What was wrong with the testimony against Jesus given to the Council?**

The testimony against Jesus was false and did not agree.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:55–MRK 14:56

## Mark 14:61 (id: 175559)

**What question did the high priest ask Jesus about who Jesus was?**

The high priest asked Jesus if he was the Christ, the son of the Blessed.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:61

## Mark 14:62 (id: 175560)

**What was Jesus’ answer to the high priest’s question?**

Jesus answered by saying, "I am."

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:62

## Mark 14:64 (id: 175561)

**Hearing Jesus’ answer, of what did the high priest say Jesus was guilty?**

The high priest said that Jesus was guilty of blasphemy.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:64

## Mark 14:65 (id: 175562)

**What did they do to Jesus after condemning him as one who deserved death?**

They spit on him, struck him, and beat him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:65

## Mark 14:66–68 (id: 175563)

**What was Peter’s answer to the servant girl who said that Peter was with Jesus?**

Peter answered that he did not know or understand about what the girl was talking.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:66–MRK 14:68

## Mark 14:71 (id: 175564)

**What was Peter’s response when he was asked a third time if he was one of Jesus’ disciples?**

Peter swore and put himself under curses that he did not know Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:71

## Mark 14:72 (id: 175565)

**What happened after Peter answered the third time?**

After Peter answered the third time, the rooster crowed a second time.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:72

## Mark 14:72 (#2) (id: 175566)

**What did Peter do after he heard the rooster?**

After he heard the rooster, Peter broke down and wept.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 14:72

## Mark 15:1 (id: 175567)

**Early in the morning, what did the chief priests do with Jesus?**

Early in the morning, they bound Jesus and handed him over to Pilate.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:1

## Mark 15:5 (id: 175568)

**While the chief priests were presenting many charges against Jesus, what amazed Pilate about Jesus?**

Pilate was amazed that Jesus no longer answered him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:5

## Mark 15:6 (id: 175569)

**What did Pilate usually do for the crowd at the time of the feast?**

Pilate usually released to the crowd one prisoner they requested at the time of the feast.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:6

## Mark 15:10 (id: 175570)

**Why did Pilate want to release Jesus to the crowd?**

Pilate knew that it was because of envy that the chief priests had handed Jesus over to him.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:10

## Mark 15:11 (id: 175571)

**Who did the crowd cry out to be released?**

The crowd cried out for Barabbas to be released.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:11

## Mark 15:12–13 (id: 175572)

**What did the crowd say should be done with the King of the Jews?**

The crowd said that the King of the Jews should be crucified.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:12–MRK 15:13

## Mark 15:17 (id: 175573)

**How did the cohort of soldiers dress Jesus?**

The soldiers put a purple robe on Jesus and put on him a twisted crown of thorns.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:17

## Mark 15:21 (id: 175574)

**Who carried Jesus’ cross?**

A passerby, Simon of Cyrene, was forced to carry Jesus’ cross.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:21

## Mark 15:22 (id: 175575)

**What was the name of the place where the soldiers brought Jesus to crucify him?**

The name of the place was Golgotha, which means Place of a Skull.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:22

## Mark 15:24 (id: 175576)

**What did the soldiers do with Jesus’ garments?**

The soldiers cast lots for Jesus’ garments.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:24

## Mark 15:26 (id: 175577)

**What charge against Jesus did the soldiers write on the sign?**

The soldiers wrote “The King of the Jews” on the sign.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:26

## Mark 15:29–30 (id: 175578)

**What did those who passed by challenge Jesus to do?**

Those who passed by challenged Jesus to save himself and get down from the cross.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:29–MRK 15:30

## Mark 15:31–32 (id: 175579)

**What did the chief priests say Jesus should do so they would believe?**

The chief priests said that Jesus should come down from the cross so they would believe.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:31–MRK 15:32

## Mark 15:32 (id: 175580)

**What titles did the chief priests use for Jesus as they mocked him?**

The chief priests called Jesus the Christ and the King of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:32

## Mark 15:33 (id: 175581)

**What happened at the sixth hour?**

At the sixth hour, darkness came over the whole land.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:33

## Mark 15:34 (id: 175582)

**What did Jesus cry out at the ninth hour?**

Jesus cried out, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?”

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:34

## Mark 15:37 (id: 175583)

**What did Jesus do before he died?**

Jesus cried out with a loud voice before he died.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:37

## Mark 15:38 (id: 175584)

**What happened in the temple when Jesus died?**

The curtain of the temple was split in two from top to bottom when Jesus died.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:38

## Mark 15:39 (id: 175585)

**What did the centurion testify when he saw how Jesus died?**

The centurion testified that truly this man was the Son of God.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:39

## Mark 15:42 (id: 175586)

**On what day did Jesus die?**

Jesus died on the day before the Sabbath.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:42

## Mark 15:43–46 (id: 175587)

**What did Joseph of Arimathea do after Jesus died?**

Joseph of Arimathea took Jesus down from the cross, wrapped him in linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb, rolling a stone against the entrance of the tomb.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 15:43–MRK 15:46

## Mark 16:1–2 (id: 175588)

**When did the women go to Jesus’ tomb to anoint his body?**

The women went to the tomb on the first day of the week when the sun came up.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 16:1–MRK 16:2

## Mark 16:4 (id: 175589)

**How did the women enter the tomb even though there had been a very large stone at the entrance?**

Someone had rolled away the very large stone from the entrance.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 16:4

## Mark 16:5 (id: 175590)

**What did the women see when they entered the tomb?**

The women saw a young man dressed in a white robe sitting on the right side.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 16:5

## Mark 16:6 (id: 175591)

**What did the young man say about Jesus?**

The young man said that Jesus was risen and was not there.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 16:6

## Mark 16:7 (id: 175592)

**Where did the young man say the disciples would meet Jesus?**

The young man said the disciples would meet Jesus in Galilee.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 16:7

## Mark 16:9 (id: 175593)

**To whom did Jesus first appear after his resurrection?**

Jesus first appeared to Mary Magdalene.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 16:9

## Mark 16:11 (id: 175594)

**How did Jesus’ disciples respond when Mary told them she had seen Jesus alive?**

The disciples did not believe.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 16:11

## Mark 16:13 (id: 175595)

**How did Jesus’ disciples respond when two other people told them they had seen Jesus alive?**

The disciples did not believe.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 16:13

## Mark 16:14 (id: 175596)

**When he appeared to the disciples, what did Jesus say to them about their unbelief?**

Jesus rebuked the disciples for their unbelief.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 16:14

## Mark 16:15 (id: 175597)

**What command did Jesus give the disciples?**

Jesus commanded the disciples to go into all the world and preach the gospel.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 16:15

## Mark 16:16 (id: 175598)

**Who did Jesus say would be saved?**

Jesus said those who believed and were baptized would be saved.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 16:16

## Mark 16:16 (#2) (id: 175599)

**Who did Jesus say would be condemned?**

Jesus said those who did not believe would be condemned.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 16:16

## Mark 16:17–18 (id: 175600)

**What signs did Jesus say would go with those who believed?**

Jesus said those who believed would cast out demons, would speak in new languages, would not be hurt by anything deadly, and would heal others.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 16:17–MRK 16:18

## Mark 16:19 (id: 175601)

**What happened to Jesus after he spoke to the disciples?**

After he spoke to the disciples, Jesus was taken up into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 16:19

## Mark 16:20 (id: 175602)

**What did the disciples then do?**

The disciples then left and preached everywhere.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 16:20

## Mark 16:20 (#2) (id: 175603)

**What did the Lord then do?**

The Lord then worked with the disciples and confirmed the word with miraculous signs.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 16:20

