# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Romans 1:1–2 (id: 178815)

**By what means had God promised the gospel before Paul’s time?**

God had promised the gospel before by his prophets in the holy Scriptures.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:1–ROM 1:2

## Romans 1:3 (id: 178816)

**According to the flesh, God’s Son was born out of which descendants?**

According to the flesh, God’s Son was born out of the descendants of David.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:3

## Romans 1:4 (id: 178817)

**By what event was Jesus Christ declared to be the Son of God?**

Jesus Christ was declared to be the Son of God by the resurrection from the dead.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:4

## Romans 1:5 (id: 178818)

**For what purpose did Paul receive grace and apostleship from Christ?**

Paul received grace and apostleship for obedience of faith among all the nations.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:5

## Romans 1:8 (id: 178819)

**For what does Paul thank God concerning the believers in Rome?**

Paul thanks God because their faith is proclaimed throughout the whole world.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:8

## Romans 1:11 (id: 178820)

**Why does Paul desire to see the believers in Rome?**

Paul desires to see them in order to give them some spiritual gift in order to strengthen them.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:11

## Romans 1:13 (id: 178821)

**Why had Paul been unable to visit the believers in Rome until now?**

Paul had been unable to visit because he was hindered until now.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:13

## Romans 1:16 (id: 178822)

**What does Paul say the gospel is?**

Paul says the gospel is the power of God for salvation for every one who believes.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:16

## Romans 1:17 (id: 178823)

**What scripture does Paul quote concerning how the righteous will live?**

Paul quotes the scripture, “The righteous will live by faith”.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:17

## Romans 1:18–19 (id: 178824)

**What do the ungodly and unrighteous do even though that which is known about God is visible to them?**

The ungodly and unrighteous hold back the truth even though that which is known about God is visible to them.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:18–ROM 1:19

## Romans 1:20 (id: 178825)

**How are the unseen things about God clearly visible?**

The unseen things about God are clearly visible through the created things.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:20

## Romans 1:20 (#2) (id: 178826)

**What characteristics of God are clearly visible?**

God’s everlasting power and divine nature are clearly visible.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:20

## Romans 1:21 (id: 178827)

**What happens to the thoughts and hearts of those who do not glorify God nor give him thanks?**

Those who do not glorify God nor give him thanks become foolish in their thoughts and their hearts are darkened.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:21

## Romans 1:24 (id: 178828)

**What does God do to those who exchange his glory for the images of perishable men and animals?**

God gives them over to the lusts of their hearts for uncleanness, for their bodies to be dishonored among themselves.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:24

## Romans 1:26–27 (id: 178829)

**For what dishonorable passions do these women and men burn in their lust?**

The women burn in their lust for one another, and the men burn in their lust for one another.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:26–ROM 1:27

## Romans 1:28 (id: 178830)

**What does God do to those who do not approve of having him in their awareness?**

God gives them up to a disapproved mind, to do those things that are not proper.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:28

## Romans 1:29 (id: 178831)

**What are some of the characteristics of those who have a depraved mind?**

Those who have a depraved mind are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, and evil intentions.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:29

## Romans 1:32 (id: 178832)

**What do those with a depraved mind understand about God’s requirements?**

Those with a depraved mind understand that those who practice such things are worthy of death.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:32

## Romans 1:32 (#2) (id: 178833)

**Even though those with a depraved mind understand God’s requirements, what do they do anyway?**

They do unrighteous things anyway, and approve of those who practice them.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 1:32

## Romans 2:1 (id: 178834)

**Why are some people without excuse in their judging?**

Some people are without excuse in their judging because what they judge in another they practice themselves.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 2:1

## Romans 2:2 (id: 178835)

**How does God judge when he judges those who practice unrighteousness?**

God judges according to truth when he judges those who practice unrighteousness.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 2:2

## Romans 2:4 (id: 178836)

**What are God’s patience, kindness, and goodness meant to do?**

God’s patience, kindness, and goodness are meant to lead a person to repentance.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 2:4

## Romans 2:5 (id: 178837)

**What are those with hard, unrepentant hearts toward God storing up for themselves?**

Those with hard, unrepentant hearts are storing up for themselves wrath on the day of God’s righteous judgment.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 2:5

## Romans 2:7 (id: 178838)

**What do those receive who have done consistent, good actions?**

Those who have done consistent, good actions will receive eternal life.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 2:7

## Romans 2:8–9 (id: 178839)

**What do those receive who obey unrighteousness?**

Those who obey unrighteousness receive wrath and anger.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 2:8–ROM 2:9

## Romans 2:12 (id: 178840)

**How does God show no partiality in his judgment between Jew and Greek?**

God shows no partiality, because those who sin, either Jew or Greek, will perish.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 2:12

## Romans 2:13 (id: 178841)

**Who is justified before God?**

The doers of the law are justified before God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 2:13

## Romans 2:14 (id: 178842)

**How do Gentiles show that they do are a law to themselves?**

Gentiles show that they are a law to themselves when, by nature, they do the things of the Law.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 2:14

## Romans 2:21 (id: 178843)

**What challenge does Paul give to those Jews who rest upon the law and teach others?**

Paul challenges them that if they teach others the law, they should also teach themselves.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 2:21

## Romans 2:21–22 (id: 178844)

**Which sins does Paul mention that the Jewish teachers of the Law should stop doing?**

Paul mentions the sins of stealing, adultery, and the robbery of temples.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 2:21–ROM 2:22

## Romans 2:23–24 (id: 178845)

**Why is the name of God dishonored among the Gentiles because of the Jewish teachers of the law?**

God’s name is being dishonored because the Jewish teachers of the law are transgressing the law.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 2:23–ROM 2:24

## Romans 2:25 (id: 178846)

**How does Paul say a Jewish person’s circumcision can become uncircumcision?**

Paul says that a Jewish person’s circumcision can become uncircumcision if that person is a violator of the law.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 2:25

## Romans 2:26 (id: 178847)

**How does Paul say that a Gentile person’s uncircumcision can be considered circumcision?**

Paul says that a Gentile person’s uncircumcision can be considered circumcision if that person keeps the requirements of the law.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 2:26

## Romans 2:28–29 (id: 178848)

**Who does Paul say is a true Jew?**

Paul says that a true Jew is a Jew inwardly, with a circumcision of the heart.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 2:28–ROM 2:29

## Romans 2:29 (id: 178849)

**From whom does a true Jew receive praise?**

A true Jew receives praise from God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 2:29

## Romans 3:1–2 (id: 178850)

**What is first of all among the advantages of the Jew?**

First of all among the advantages of the Jew is that they were entrusted with revelation from God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 3:1–ROM 3:2

## Romans 3:4 (id: 178851)

**Even though every man is a liar, what is God found to be?**

Even though every man is a liar, God is found to be true.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 3:4

## Romans 3:5–6 (id: 178852)

**Because God is righteous, what is he able to do?**

Because God is righteous, he is able to judge the world.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 3:5–ROM 3:6

## Romans 3:8 (id: 178853)

**What comes on those who say, “Let us do evil, that good may come”?**

Judgment comes on those who say, “Let us do evil, that good may come.”

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 3:8

## Romans 3:9–10 (id: 178854)

**What is written in the Scriptures about the righteousness of all, both Jews and Greeks?**

It is written that there is none righteous, not one.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 3:9–ROM 3:10

## Romans 3:11 (id: 178855)

**According to what is written, who understands and seeks out God?**

According to what is written, none understands and none seeks out God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 3:11

## Romans 3:20 (id: 178856)

**Who will be justified by the works of the law?**

No flesh will be justified by the works of the law.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 3:20

## Romans 3:20 (#2) (id: 178857)

**What comes through the law?**

The full awareness of sin comes through the law.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 3:20

## Romans 3:21 (id: 178858)

**By what witnesses has a righteousness without the law now been made known?**

By the witnesses of the Law and the Prophets has a righteousness without the law now been made known.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 3:21

## Romans 3:22 (id: 178859)

**What is the righteousness without the law that has now been made known?**

The righteousness without the law is the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 3:22

## Romans 3:24 (id: 178860)

**How is a person justified before God?**

A person is justified before God freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 3:24

## Romans 3:25 (id: 178861)

**For what purpose did God provide Christ Jesus?**

God provided Christ Jesus as a propitiation through faith in his blood.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 3:25

## Romans 3:26 (id: 178862)

**What did God show by all that happened through Jesus Christ?**

God showed that he is the one who justifies anyone because of faith in Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 3:26

## Romans 3:28 (id: 178863)

**What role do the works of the law have in justification?**

A person is justified by faith totally apart from the works of the law.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 3:28

## Romans 3:30 (id: 178864)

**How does God justify the circumcised Jew and the uncircumcised Gentile?**

God justifies both by faith.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 3:30

## Romans 3:31 (id: 178865)

**What do we do with the law through faith?**

We uphold the law through faith.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 3:31

## Romans 4:2 (id: 178866)

**What would have given Abraham reason to boast?**

Abraham would have had reason to boast if he had been justified by works.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 4:2

## Romans 4:3 (id: 178867)

**What do the scriptures say about how Abraham was justified?**

The scripture says that Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 4:3

## Romans 4:5 (id: 178868)

**What kind of people does God justify?**

God justifies the people who trust in him.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 4:5

## Romans 4:6–8 (id: 178869)

**According to David, in what way is a man blessed by God?**

According to David, blessed is the man whose sins are forgiven and whose sins are not counted by the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 4:6–ROM 4:8

## Romans 4:9–10 (id: 178870)

**Was Abraham’s faith counted as righteousness before or after he was circumcised?**

Abraham’s faith was counted as righteousness before he was circumcised.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 4:9–ROM 4:10

## Romans 4:11–12 (id: 178871)

**Abraham is the father of which groups of people?**

Abraham is the father of all who believe, both the physically uncircumcised and the circumcised.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 4:11–ROM 4:12

## Romans 4:13 (id: 178872)

**What promise was given to Abraham and his descendants through the righteousness of faith?**

It was promised to Abraham and his descendants that they would be heirs of the world.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 4:13

## Romans 4:14 (id: 178873)

**What would be true if the promise to Abraham had come through the law?**

If the promise had come through the law, then faith would be empty and the promise not true.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 4:14

## Romans 4:16 (id: 178874)

**For what reasons is the promise given by faith?**

The promise is given by faith so that it is by grace, and so that it is sure.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 4:16

## Romans 4:17 (id: 178875)

**What two things does Paul say God does?**

Paul says that God gives life to the dead and calls things that do not exist into existence.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 4:17

## Romans 4:18 (id: 178876)

**How did Abraham respond to God’s promise even with these outward circumstances?**

Abraham confidently trusted God and did not hesitate in unbelief.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 4:18

## Romans 4:18–19 (id: 178877)

**What outward circumstances made it difficult for Abraham to believe God’s promise that he would be the father of many nations?**

When God made the promise to Abraham, Abraham was about a hundred years old and Sarah’s womb was dead.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 4:18–ROM 4:19

## Romans 4:20 (id: 178878)

**How did Abraham respond to God’s promise even with these outward circumstances?**

Abraham confidently trusted God and did not hesitate in unbelief.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 4:20

## Romans 4:23–24 (id: 178879)

**For whom was the account of Abraham written?**

The account of Abraham was written for his benefit and also for our benefit.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 4:23–ROM 4:24

## Romans 4:25 (id: 178880)

**What do we believe God has done for us?**

We believe God has raised Jesus from the dead, who was delivered up for our sins and raised for our justification.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 4:25

## Romans 5:1 (id: 178881)

**What do believers have because they are justified by faith?**

Because they are justified by faith, believers have peace with God through the Lord Jesus Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 5:1

## Romans 5:3–4 (id: 178882)

**What are three things that suffering produces?**

Suffering produces endurance, character, and hope.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 5:3–ROM 5:4

## Romans 5:8 (id: 178883)

**How does God demonstrate his love toward us?**

God demonstrates his love toward us, because while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 5:8

## Romans 5:9 (id: 178884)

**Being justified by Christ’s blood, from what are believers saved?**

Being justified by Christ’s blood, believers are saved from the wrath of God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 5:9

## Romans 5:10 (id: 178885)

**What relationship do unbelievers have with God before they are reconciled to God through Jesus?**

Unbelievers are enemies of God before they are reconciled to God through Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 5:10

## Romans 5:12 (id: 178886)

**What happened because of one man’s sin?**

Because of the sin of one man, sin entered into the world, death entered through sin, and death spread to all people.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 5:12

## Romans 5:14 (id: 178887)

**Who was the one man through whom sin entered the world?**

Adam was the one man through whom sin entered the world.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 5:14

## Romans 5:15 (id: 178888)

**How is God’s free gift different than Adam’s sins?**

By Adam’s sin many died, but the grace of God and his free gift through Christ abounds to many.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 5:15

## Romans 5:16 (id: 178889)

**What resulted from Adam’s sin, and what resulted from God’s free gift?**

The judgment of condemnation resulted from Adam’s sin, but justification resulted from God’s free gift.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 5:16

## Romans 5:17 (id: 178890)

**What ruled from Adam’s sin, and what ruled through God’s gift of righteousness?**

Death ruled from Adam’s sin, and those who receive God’s gift rule through the life of Jesus Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 5:17

## Romans 5:19 (id: 178891)

**What were many made through Adam’s disobedience, and what will many be made through the obedience of Christ?**

Many were made sinners through Adam’s disobedience, and many will be made righteous through the obedience of Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 5:19

## Romans 5:20 (id: 178892)

**Why did the law come in alongside?**

The law came alongside in order that the trespass might increase.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 5:20

## Romans 5:20 (#2) (id: 178893)

**What abounded more than the trespass?**

God’s grace abounded more than the trespass.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 5:20

## Romans 6:1–2 (id: 178894)

**Should believers continue in sin so that God’s grace may abound?**

May it never be.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 6:1–ROM 6:2

## Romans 6:3 (id: 178895)

**Into what were people baptized who were baptized into Christ Jesus?**

People baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into Christ’s death.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 6:3

## Romans 6:4 (id: 178896)

**What should believers do since Christ was raised from the dead?**

Believers should walk in newness of life.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 6:4

## Romans 6:5 (id: 178897)

**In what two ways are believers united to Christ through baptism?**

Believers are united to Christ in his death and resurrection.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 6:5

## Romans 6:6 (id: 178898)

**What was done for us so that we should no longer be slaves to sin?**

Our old man was crucified with Christ so that we should no longer be slaves to sin.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 6:6

## Romans 6:9 (id: 178899)

**How do we know that death no longer rules over Christ?**

We know that death no longer rules over Christ because Christ has been raised from the dead.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 6:9

## Romans 6:10 (id: 178900)

**How many times did Christ die to sin, and for how many people did he die?**

Christ died to sin once for all.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 6:10

## Romans 6:10–11 (id: 178901)

**How should a believer think of himself with respect to sin?**

A believer should think of himself as dead to sin.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 6:10–ROM 6:11

## Romans 6:10–11 (#2) (id: 178902)

**For whom does a believer live his life?**

A believer lives his life for God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 6:10–ROM 6:11

## Romans 6:13 (id: 178903)

**To whom should a believer present the members of his body, and for what purpose?**

A believer should present the members of his body to God as tools of righteousness.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 6:13

## Romans 6:14 (id: 178904)

**What does a believer live under, which allows him to rule over sin?**

A believer lives under grace, which allows him to rule over sin.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 6:14

## Romans 6:18–19 (id: 178905)

**What is the end result for a person who makes himself a servant of God?**

The end result of a person who makes himself a servant of God is righteousness.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 6:18–ROM 6:19

## Romans 6:22 (id: 178906)

**Slaves of God have their fruit for what purpose?**

Slaves of God have their fruit for sanctification.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 6:22

## Romans 6:23 (id: 178907)

**What is the wages of sin?**

The wages of sin is death.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 6:23

## Romans 6:23 (#2) (id: 178908)

**What is the free gift of God?**

The free gift of God is eternal life.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 6:23

## Romans 7:1 (id: 178909)

**How long does the law control a person?**

The law controls a person for as long as he lives.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:1

## Romans 7:2 (id: 178910)

**How long is a married woman bound by the law of marriage?**

A married woman is bound by the law of marriage until her husband dies.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:2

## Romans 7:3 (id: 178911)

**What may a woman do once she is free from the law of marriage?**

Once she is free from the law of marriage, a woman may marry another man.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:3

## Romans 7:4 (id: 178912)

**How are believers made dead to the law?**

Believers are made dead to the law through the body of Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:4

## Romans 7:4 (#2) (id: 178913)

**Having been made dead to the law, what are believers able to do?**

Having been made dead to the law, believers are able to be joined to Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:4

## Romans 7:7 (id: 178914)

**What function does the law perform?**

The law makes sin known.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:7

## Romans 7:7 (#2) (id: 178915)

**Is the law sin?**

No, the law is not sin.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:7

## Romans 7:8 (id: 178916)

**What does sin do through the commandment of the law?**

Sin, through the commandment of the law, brings about every lust in a person.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:8

## Romans 7:12 (id: 178917)

**Is the law holy?**

The law is holy, and the commandment is holy, righteous, and good.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:12

## Romans 7:13 (id: 178918)

**What does Paul say sin does to him?**

Paul says that sin, through the law, brings about death in him.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:13

## Romans 7:16 (id: 178919)

**What causes Paul to agree with the law that the law is good?**

When Paul does that which he does not want, then he agrees with the law that the law is good.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:16

## Romans 7:17 (id: 178920)

**What is causing him to do do the things that Paul does, but does not wish to do?**

Sin that lives in Paul causes him to do the things that he does not wish to do.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:17

## Romans 7:18 (id: 178921)

**What lives in Paul’s flesh?**

No good thing lives in Paul’s flesh.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:18

## Romans 7:21 (id: 178922)

**What principle does Paul find at work in him?**

Paul finds the principle in him that he wants to do what is good, but evil is actually present in him.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:21

## Romans 7:22 (id: 178923)

**What attitude does Paul’s inner man have toward the law of God?**

Paul’s inner man rejoices in the law of God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:22

## Romans 7:23 (id: 178924)

**What principle does Paul find active in the members of his body?**

In the members of his body, Paul finds the principle of sin taking him captive.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:23

## Romans 7:25 (id: 178925)

**Who will deliver Paul from his body of death?**

Paul gives thanks to God for his deliverance through Jesus Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 7:24–ROM 7:25

## Romans 8:2 (id: 178926)

**What has made Paul free from the law of sin and death?**

The principle of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made Paul free from the law of sin and death.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:2

## Romans 8:3 (id: 178927)

**Why was the law unable to set people free from the principle of sin and death?**

The law was unable because it was weak through the flesh.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:3

## Romans 8:4–5 (id: 178928)

**Those who walk according to the Spirit set their minds on what?**

Those who walk according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:4–ROM 8:5

## Romans 8:7 (id: 178929)

**What is the flesh’s relationship to God and the law?**

The flesh is hostile toward God and is not able to be subject to the law.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:7

## Romans 8:9 (id: 178930)

**What are people lacking who do not belong to God?**

People who do not belong to God lack the Spirit of Christ living in them.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:9

## Romans 8:11 (id: 178931)

**How does God give life to the believer’s mortal body?**

God gives life to the believer’s mortal body through his Spirit, who lives in the believer.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:11

## Romans 8:14 (id: 178932)

**How are the sons of God led to live?**

The sons of God are led by the Spirit of God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:14

## Romans 8:15 (id: 178933)

**How is a believer included into God’s family?**

A believer is included into God’s family by adoption.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:15

## Romans 8:17 (id: 178934)

**As children of God, what other benefit do believers receive in God’s family?**

As children of God, believers are also heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:17

## Romans 8:18–19 (id: 178935)

**Why are the sufferings of the present time to be endured by believers?**

The sufferings of the present time are to be endured so that believers may be glorified with Christ when the sons of God are revealed.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:18–ROM 8:19

## Romans 8:21 (id: 178936)

**At the present time, under what kind of slavery is the creation?**

At the present time, the creation is under the slavery of decay.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:21

## Romans 8:21 (#2) (id: 178937)

**Into what will the creation be delivered?**

The creation will be delivered into the freedom of the glory of the children of God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:21

## Romans 8:23–25 (id: 178938)

**How are believers to wait for the redemption of the body?**

Believers are to wait with confidence and patience for the redemption of the body.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:23–ROM 8:25

## Romans 8:26–27 (id: 178939)

**What does the Spirit himself do to help in the saints’ weakness?**

The Spirit himself intercedes in behalf of the saints according to the will of God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:26–ROM 8:27

## Romans 8:28 (id: 178940)

**How does God work all things together for those who love God and are called according to his purpose?**

God works all things together for good for those who love God and are called according to his purpose.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:28

## Romans 8:29 (id: 178941)

**What is the destiny that God has predetermined for those whom he foreknew?**

God has predestined those whom he foreknew to be conformed to the image of his Son.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:29

## Romans 8:30 (id: 178942)

**What else did God do for those he predestined?**

Those he predestined, God also called, justified, and glorified.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:30

## Romans 8:32 (id: 178943)

**How do believers know that God will freely give them all things?**

Believers know that God will freely give them all things because God gave up his own Son on behalf of all believers.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:32

## Romans 8:34 (id: 178944)

**What is Christ Jesus doing at the right hand of God?**

Christ Jesus is interceding on behalf of the saints at the right hand of God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:34

## Romans 8:37 (id: 178945)

**How are believers more than conquerors over tribulation, persecution, or even death?**

Believers are more than conquerors through the one who loved them.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:37

## Romans 8:39 (id: 178946)

**What is Paul convinced that no created thing can do to the believer?**

Paul is convinced that no created thing can separate the believer from the love of God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 8:39

## Romans 9:3 (id: 178947)

**What would Paul be willing to do for the sake of his brothers according to the flesh, the Israelites?**

Paul would be willing to be cursed by God for the sake of his brothers.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:3

## Romans 9:4 (id: 178948)

**What do the Israelites have in their history?**

The Israelites have adoption, the glory, the covenants, the law, the worship of God, and the promises.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:4

## Romans 9:6–7 (id: 178949)

**What does Paul say is not true about everyone in Israel and all of Abraham’s descendants?**

Paul says that not everyone in Israel truly belongs to Israel, and not all of Abraham’s descendants are truly his children.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:6–ROM 9:7

## Romans 9:8 (id: 178950)

**Who are not counted as the children of God?**

The children of the flesh are not counted as the children of God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:8

## Romans 9:8 (#2) (id: 178951)

**Who are counted as the children of God?**

The children of the promise are counted as the children of God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:8

## Romans 9:10–12 (id: 178952)

**What was the cause behind the statement given to Rebecca, “The older will serve the younger,” before her children were born?**

The purpose of God according to choice was the cause behind the statement given to Rebecca.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:10–ROM 9:12

## Romans 9:14–16 (id: 178953)

**What is the cause behind God’s gifts of mercy and compassion?**

The cause behind God’s gifts of mercy and compassion is God’s choice.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:14–ROM 9:16

## Romans 9:16 (id: 178954)

**What is not the cause behind God’s gifts of mercy and compassion?**

The cause behind God’s gifts of mercy and compassion is not the will or actions of the person receiving the gifts.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:16

## Romans 9:20 (id: 178955)

**What is Paul’s reply to those who would question if God is righteous because he finds fault in men?**

Paul replies, “Who are you who answers against God?”

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:20

## Romans 9:22 (id: 178956)

**What did God do with those prepared for destruction?**

God endured with much patience those prepared for destruction.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:22

## Romans 9:23 (id: 178957)

**What did God do with those prepared for glory?**

God made known to them the riches of his glory.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:23

## Romans 9:24 (id: 178958)

**From which peoples has God called those on whom he is having mercy?**

God has called from both Jews and Gentiles those on whom he is having mercy.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:24

## Romans 9:27 (id: 178959)

**From all the children of Israel, how many will be saved?**

From all the children of Israel, a remnant will be saved.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:27

## Romans 9:30 (id: 178960)

**How did the Gentiles, who were not pursuing righteousness, attain it?**

The Gentiles attained it through the righteousness by faith.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:30

## Romans 9:32 (id: 178961)

**Why did Israel, although pursuing a law of righteousness, not arrive at it?**

Israel did not arrive at it because they pursued it by works, and not by faith.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:32

## Romans 9:32–33 (id: 178962)

**Over what did the Israelites stumble?**

The Israelites stumbled over the stone of stumbling and the rock of offense.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:32–ROM 9:33

## Romans 9:33 (id: 178963)

**What happens to those who do not stumble, but believe?**

Those who do not stumble, but believe, will not be ashamed.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 9:33

## Romans 10:1 (id: 178964)

**What is Paul’s desire for his brothers, the Israelites?**

Paul’s desire is for the Israelites’ salvation.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 10:1

## Romans 10:3 (id: 178965)

**What are the Israelites seeking to establish?**

The Israelites are seeking to establish their own righteousness.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 10:3

## Romans 10:3 (#2) (id: 178966)

**Of what do the Israelites not know?**

The Israelites do not know of God’s righteousness.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 10:3

## Romans 10:4 (id: 178967)

**What has Christ done with respect to the law?**

Christ is the fulfillment of the law for righteousness for everyone who believes.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 10:4

## Romans 10:8 (id: 178968)

**Where is the word of faith which Paul is proclaiming?**

The word of faith is near, in the mouth and in the heart.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 10:8

## Romans 10:9 (id: 178969)

**What does Paul say a person does to be saved?**

Paul says a person must acknowledge with the mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in the heart that God raised him from the dead.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 10:9

## Romans 10:13 (id: 178970)

**Everyone who does what will be saved?**

Everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 10:13

## Romans 10:14–15 (id: 178971)

**What does Paul say is the series of steps which brings the good news to a person, so he can call on the name of the Lord?**

Paul says that first a preacher is sent and the good news is heard and believed so that a person can call on the name of the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 10:14–ROM 10:15

## Romans 10:17 (id: 178972)

**What is heard which brings faith?**

The word of Christ is heard, which brings faith.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 10:17

## Romans 10:18 (id: 178973)

**Did Israel hear the gospel?**

Yes, Israel heard the gospel.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 10:18

## Romans 10:19 (id: 178974)

**How did God say he would provoke Israel to jealousy?**

God said he would provoke Israel to jealousy by appearing a nation that had not known him.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 10:19

## Romans 10:21 (id: 178975)

**What did God find when he reached out to Israel?**

When God reached out to Israel, he found a disobedient and resistant people.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 10:21

## Romans 11:1 (id: 178976)

**Has God then rejected the Israelites?**

May it never be!

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 11:1

## Romans 11:5 (id: 178977)

**Does Paul say if there are any faithful Israelites remaining, and if so, how have they been preserved?**

Paul says that there is a remnant remaining that has been preserved because of the choice of grace.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 11:5

## Romans 11:7 (id: 178978)

**Who among the Israelites obtained salvation, and what happened to the rest?**

The chosen among the Israelites obtained salvation, and the rest were hardened.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 11:7

## Romans 11:8 (id: 178979)

**What did the spirit of dullness given by God do to those who received it?**

The spirit of dullness made their eyes unable to see and their ears unable to hear.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 11:8

## Romans 11:11 (id: 178980)

**What good has happened because of Israel’s refusal to receive the gospel?**

Salvation has come to the Gentiles.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 11:11

## Romans 11:11 (#2) (id: 178981)

**What effect will the salvation of the Gentiles have on the Israelites?**

The salvation of the Gentiles will provoke the Israelites to jealousy.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 11:11

## Romans 11:13–17 (id: 178982)

**In Paul’s analogy of the olive tree root and the wild branches, who is the root and who are the wild branches?**

The root is Israel, and the wild branches are the Gentiles.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 11:13–ROM 11:17

## Romans 11:18 (id: 178983)

**What attitude does Paul say the wild branches must avoid?**

Paul says the wild branches must avoid the attitude of boasting over the natural branches that were broken off.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 11:18

## Romans 11:20–21 (id: 178984)

**What warning does Paul give the wild branches?**

Paul warns the wild branches that if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will he spare the wild branches if they fall into unbelief.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 11:20–ROM 11:21

## Romans 11:23–24 (id: 178985)

**What can God do with natural branches if they do not continue in their unbelief?**

God can graft back into the olive tree natural branches that do not continue in their unbelief.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 11:23–ROM 11:24

## Romans 11:25 (id: 178986)

**How long will the partial hardening of Israel last?**

The partial hardening of Israel will last until the completion of the Gentiles comes in.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 11:25

## Romans 11:28–29 (id: 178987)

**Despite their disobedience, why do the Israelites continue to be loved by God?**

The Israelites continue to be loved by God because of the ancestors and because the call of God is unchangeable.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 11:28–ROM 11:29

## Romans 11:30–32 (id: 178988)

**What have both Jew and Gentile been shown to be by God?**

Both Jew and Gentile have been shown to be disobedient.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 11:30–ROM 11:32

## Romans 11:30–32 (#2) (id: 178989)

**What has God shown to the disobedient?**

God has shown mercy to the disobedient, both Jew and Gentile.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 11:30–ROM 11:32

## Romans 11:33–34 (id: 178990)

**Who is able to search God’s judgments and give him advice?**

No person can search God’s judgments and give him advice.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 11:33–ROM 11:34

## Romans 11:36 (id: 178991)

**What are the three ways all things are related to God?**

All things are from God, through God, and to God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 11:36

## Romans 12:1 (id: 178992)

**What is the spiritual service to God for a believer?**

A believer’s spiritual service is to present himself a living sacrifice to God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 12:1

## Romans 12:2 (id: 178993)

**What does a transformed mind in the believer enable him to do?**

A transformed mind enables a believer to know what is the good, acceptable, and perfect will of God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 12:2

## Romans 12:3 (id: 178994)

**How should a believer not think of himself?**

A believer should not think of himself more highly than he ought to think.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 12:3

## Romans 12:4–5 (id: 178995)

**How are the many believers related to each other in Christ?**

The many believers are one body in Christ, and individually members of each other.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 12:4–ROM 12:5

## Romans 12:6 (id: 178996)

**What should each believer do with the gifts God has given him?**

Each believer should exercise his gifts according to the proportion of his faith.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 12:6

## Romans 12:10 (id: 178997)

**How should believers treat one another?**

Believers should be affectionate to one another and respect one another.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 12:10

## Romans 12:13 (id: 178998)

**How should believers respond to the needs of the saints?**

Believers should share in the needs of the saints.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 12:13

## Romans 12:14 (id: 178999)

**How should believers respond to those who persecute them?**

Believers should bless, and not curse, those who persecute them.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 12:14

## Romans 12:16 (id: 179000)

**How should believers treat lowly people?**

Believers should accept lowly people.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 12:16

## Romans 12:18 (id: 179001)

**As much as is possible, what should believers seek with all people?**

As much as is possible, believers should seek peace with all people.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 12:18

## Romans 12:19 (id: 179002)

**Why should believers not avenge themselves?**

Believers should not avenge themselves, because vengeance belongs to the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 12:19

## Romans 12:21 (id: 179003)

**How should believers overcome evil?**

Believers should overcome evil with good.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 12:21

## Romans 13:1 (id: 179004)

**From where do earthly authorities get their authority?**

Earthly authorities are appointed by God and get their authority from God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 13:1

## Romans 13:2 (id: 179005)

**What will those receive who oppose the earthly authority?**

Those who oppose the earthly authority will receive judgment upon themselves.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 13:2

## Romans 13:3 (id: 179006)

**What does Paul tell believers to do so that they can be unafraid of the ruling authority?**

Paul tells believers to do what is good so that they can be unafraid of the ruling authority.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 13:3

## Romans 13:4 (id: 179007)

**What authority has God given rulers in order to suppress evil?**

God has given rulers the authority to carry the sword and to punish the one who does evil.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 13:4

## Romans 13:6 (id: 179008)

**What authority has God given rulers regarding money?**

God has given rulers the authority to require payment of taxes.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 13:6

## Romans 13:8 (id: 179009)

**What is the one thing Paul says believers should owe to others?**

Paul says that believers should owe love to others.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 13:8

## Romans 13:8 (#2) (id: 179010)

**How does a believer fulfill the law?**

A believer fulfills the law by loving his neighbor.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 13:8

## Romans 13:9 (id: 179011)

**Which commandments does Paul list as part of the law?**

Paul lists the commandments to not commit adultery, not kill, not steal, and not covet as part of the law.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 13:9

## Romans 13:10 (id: 179012)

**How does a believer fulfill the law?**

A believer fulfills the law by loving his neighbor.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 13:10

## Romans 13:12 (id: 179013)

**What does Paul say believers should put aside, and put on?**

Paul says believers should put aside the works of darkness and put on the armor of light.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 13:12

## Romans 13:13 (id: 179014)

**In what activities are believers not to walk?**

Believers are not to walk in wild celebrations, drunkenness, sexual immorality, uncontrolled lust, strife, or jealousy.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 13:13

## Romans 13:14 (id: 179015)

**What should be the believer’s attitude toward the lusts of the flesh?**

The believer should make no provision for the lusts of the flesh.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 13:14

## Romans 14:2 (id: 179016)

**What kind of food does a person with stronger faith eat, and what does a person with weaker faith eat?**

A person who is stronger in faith eats anything, but a person who is weaker in faith eats only vegetables.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 14:2

## Romans 14:3 (id: 179017)

**What attitude should believers who differ on what they eat have toward one another?**

Believers who differ on what they eat should not despise or judge each other.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 14:3

## Romans 14:3–4 (id: 179018)

**Who has received both the one who eats anything and the one who eats only vegetables?**

God has received both the one who eats anything and the one who eats only vegetables.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 14:3–ROM 14:4

## Romans 14:5 (id: 179019)

**What other issue does Paul mention as being an issue of personal conviction?**

Paul mentions as an issue of personal conviction whether one day is valued over another or all days are valued equally.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 14:5

## Romans 14:7–8 (id: 179020)

**For what do believers live and die?**

Believers live and die for the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 14:7–ROM 14:8

## Romans 14:10 (id: 179021)

**Where will all believers ultimately stand?**

All believers will ultimately stand before the judgment seat of God.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 14:10

## Romans 14:13 (id: 179022)

**What attitude should a brother have toward another brother on issues of personal conviction?**

A brother should not place a stumbling block or a snare for another brother on issues of personal conviction.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 14:13

## Romans 14:14 (id: 179023)

**Paul is persuaded in the Lord Jesus that which foods are unclean?**

Paul is persuaded that no foods are unclean.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 14:14

## Romans 14:17 (id: 179024)

**About what is the kingdom of God?**

The kingdom of God is about righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 14:17

## Romans 14:21 (id: 179025)

**What does Paul say a brother should do in the presence of another brother who does not eat meat or drink wine?**

Paul says it is good if the brother does not eat meat or drink wine in the presence of the other brother.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 14:21

## Romans 14:23 (id: 179026)

**What is the result if a person does not act from faith?**

Whatever actions are not taken from faith are sin.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 14:23

## Romans 15:1–2 (id: 179027)

**What attitude should believers with strong faith have toward those with weak faith?**

Believers with strong faith should bear the weaknesses of those with weak faith, in order to build them up.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 15:1–ROM 15:2

## Romans 15:3 (id: 179028)

**Who is the example Paul uses of one who did not live to please himself, but served others?**

Christ did not live to please himself, but served others.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 15:3

## Romans 15:4 (id: 179029)

**What was one of the purposes of the Scriptures written previously?**

The Scriptures written previously were written for our instruction.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 15:4

## Romans 15:5 (id: 179030)

**What does Paul desire for the believers through their exercise of patience and encouragement with each other?**

Paul desires that the believers be of the same mind with each other.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 15:5

## Romans 15:8–9 (id: 179031)

**Who is the example Paul uses of one who lived to serve others?**

Christ lived to served others.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 15:8–ROM 15:9

## Romans 15:10–11 (id: 179032)

**What do the scriptures say the Gentiles will do because of God’s mercy toward them?**

The scriptures say the Gentiles will rejoice and praise the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 15:10–ROM 15:11

## Romans 15:13 (id: 179033)

**What does Paul say the believers will be able to do by the power of the Holy Spirit?**

The believers will be filled with joy and peace, and will abound in hope.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 15:13

## Romans 15:16 (id: 179034)

**What gift did God give Paul, which is Paul’s mission?**

Paul’s mission is to be a servant of Christ Jesus sent to the Gentiles.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 15:16

## Romans 15:18–19 (id: 179035)

**By what means has Christ worked through Paul to bring about the obedience of the Gentiles?**

Christ has worked through Paul by word and action, by the power of signs and wonders, and by the power of the Holy Spirit.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 15:18–ROM 15:19

## Romans 15:20–21 (id: 179036)

**Where does Paul desire to proclaim the gospel?**

Paul desires to proclaim the gospel where Christ is not known by name.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 15:20–ROM 15:21

## Romans 15:24 (id: 179037)

**Where does Paul plan to travel that will also allow him to come to Rome?**

Paul plans to travel to Spain, which will also allow him to come to Rome.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 15:24

## Romans 15:25 (id: 179038)

**Why is Paul now going to Jerusalem?**

Paul is now going to Jerusalem to serve the believers there.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 15:25

## Romans 15:27 (id: 179039)

**Why does Paul say the Gentile believers owe the Jewish believers material things?**

The Gentiles believers owe the Jewish believers material things because the Gentile believers have shared in the spiritual things of the Jewish believers.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 15:27

## Romans 15:31 (id: 179040)

**From whom does Paul wish to be delivered?**

Paul wishes to be delivered from those who are disobedient in Judea.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 15:31

## Romans 16:1–2 (id: 179041)

**What has sister Phoebe become to Paul?**

Sister Phoebe has become a helper of Paul and of many others.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 16:1–ROM 16:2

## Romans 16:4 (id: 179042)

**What have Prisca and Aquila done for Paul in the past?**

Prisca and Aquila have risked their lives for Paul in the past.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 16:4

## Romans 16:5 (id: 179043)

**Where is one place the believers are meeting in Rome?**

The believers in Rome are meeting in the house of Prisca and Aquila.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 16:5

## Romans 16:7 (id: 179044)

**What experience have Andronicus and Junias shared with Paul in the past?**

Andronicus and Junias have been fellow prisoners with Paul in the past.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 16:7

## Romans 16:16 (id: 179045)

**How do the believers greet one another?**

The believers greet one another with a holy kiss.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 16:16

## Romans 16:17 (id: 179046)

**What does Paul tell the believers to do with those causing divisions and stumbling?**

Paul tells the believers to turn away from those causing divisions and stumbling.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 16:17

## Romans 16:17–18 (id: 179047)

**What are some doing, which is causing divisions and stumbling?**

Some are going beyond the teaching they have learned, deceiving the hearts of the innocent.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 16:17–ROM 16:18

## Romans 16:19 (id: 179048)

**What attitude does Paul want the believers to have toward good and evil?**

Paul wants the believers to be wise to that which is good, and innocent to that which is evil.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 16:19

## Romans 16:20 (id: 179049)

**What will the God of peace be doing soon?**

The God of peace will soon be crushing Satan under the believers’ feet.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 16:20

## Romans 16:22 (id: 179050)

**Who actually wrote down this epistle?**

Tertius actually wrote down this epistle.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 16:22

## Romans 16:23 (id: 179051)

**What occupation does the believer Erastus have?**

Erastus is the treasurer of the city.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 16:23

## Romans 16:25–26 (id: 179052)

**What revelation that had been kept secret from long ago is Paul now preaching?**

Paul is now preaching the revelation of the gospel of Jesus Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 16:25–ROM 16:26

## Romans 16:26 (id: 179053)

**For what purpose is Paul preaching?**

Paul is preaching for the obedience of faith among all the Gentiles.

* **Associated Passages:** ROM 16:26

