# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Galatians 1:1 (id: 169866)

**How did Paul become an apostle?**

Paul became an apostle through Jesus Christ and God the Father.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 1:1

## Galatians 1:4 (id: 169867)

**From what have believers in Jesus Christ been delivered?**

Believers in Jesus Christ have been delivered from this present evil age.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 1:4

## Galatians 1:6 (id: 169868)

**With what is Paul amazed with the church in Galatia?**

Paul is amazed that they are turning so quickly to a different gospel.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 1:6

## Galatians 1:7 (id: 169869)

**How many true gospels are there?**

There is only one true gospel, the gospel of Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 1:7

## Galatians 1:8–9 (id: 169870)

**What does Paul say should happen to anyone proclaiming a different gospel than the gospel of Christ?**

Paul says anyone proclaiming a different gospel should be cursed.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 1:8–GAL 1:9

## Galatians 1:10 (id: 169871)

**Servants of Christ must seek the approval of whom first?**

Servants of Christ must seek the approval of God first.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 1:10

## Galatians 1:12 (id: 169872)

**How did Paul receive the knowledge of the gospel of Christ?**

Paul received the gospel of Christ by revelation from Jesus Christ directly to himself.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 1:12

## Galatians 1:13–14 (id: 169873)

**What was Paul doing in his life before he received the revelation of the gospel of Christ?**

Paul was following Judaism zealously, persecuting the church of God and destroying it.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 1:13–GAL 1:14

## Galatians 1:15 (id: 169874)

**When did God choose Paul to be his apostle?**

God was pleased to choose Paul from his mother’s womb to be his apostle.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 1:15

## Galatians 1:16 (id: 169875)

**For what purpose did God choose Paul as his apostle?**

God chose Paul as his apostle so that Paul would proclaim Christ among the Gentiles.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 1:16

## Galatians 1:18–19 (id: 169876)

**Where did Paul finally meet some of the other apostles?**

Finally, Paul went to Jerusalem and met the apostles Cephas and James.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 1:18–GAL 1:19

## Galatians 1:22–23 (id: 169877)

**What were the churches in Judea hearing about Paul?**

The churches in Judea were hearing that Paul, who once persecuted the church, was now proclaiming the faith.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 1:22–GAL 1:23

## Galatians 2:1–2 (id: 169878)

**What did Paul do when he went up to Jerusalem after 14 years?**

Paul spoke privately to the leaders of the church, explaining to them the gospel that he was proclaiming.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 2:1–GAL 2:2

## Galatians 2:3 (id: 169879)

**What was Titus, a Gentile, not required to do?**

Titus was not required to be circumcised.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 2:3

## Galatians 2:4 (id: 169880)

**What did the false brothers desire to do?**

The false brothers desired to make Paul and his companions slaves to the law.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 2:4

## Galatians 2:6 (id: 169881)

**Did the leaders of the church in Jerusalem change Paul’s message?**

No, they added nothing to Paul’s message.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 2:6

## Galatians 2:7–8 (id: 169882)

**To whom was Paul primarily sent to proclaim the gospel?**

Paul was primarily sent to the uncircumcised, the Gentiles, to proclaim the gospel.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 2:7–GAL 2:8

## Galatians 2:7–8 (#2) (id: 169883)

**To whom was Peter primarily sent to proclaim the gospel?**

Peter was primarily sent to the circumcised, the Jews, to proclaim the gospel.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 2:7–GAL 2:8

## Galatians 2:9 (id: 169884)

**How did the leaders in Jerusalem show their approval of Paul’s ministry?**

The leaders in Jerusalem gave Paul and Barnabus the right hand of fellowship to show their approval.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 2:9

## Galatians 2:11–12 (id: 169885)

**What error did Peter make when he came to Antioch?**

Peter stopped eating with the Gentiles, because he feared the men who had been circumcised.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 2:11–GAL 2:12

## Galatians 2:14 (id: 169886)

**What did Paul ask Cephas in front of everyone?**

Paul asked Cephas how he could force Gentiles to live like Jews when Cephas was living like a Gentile.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 2:14

## Galatians 2:16 (id: 169887)

**Paul said that no one is justified by what?**

Paul said that no one is justified by the works of the law.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 2:16

## Galatians 2:16 (#2) (id: 169888)

**How is a person justified before God?**

A person is justified before God by faith in Christ Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 2:16

## Galatians 2:18 (id: 169889)

**If someone returns to trying to follow the law after having faith in Christ, what does Paul say he has actually become?**

Paul says he shows himself actually to be a law breaker.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 2:18

## Galatians 2:20 (id: 169890)

**Who did Paul say now lived in him?**

Paul said that Christ now lived in him.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 2:20

## Galatians 2:20 (#2) (id: 169891)

**What does Paul say the Son of God did for him?**

Paul says the Son of God loved him and gave himself for Paul.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 2:20

## Galatians 3:6 (id: 169892)

**How was Abraham considered righteous before God?**

Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 3:6

## Galatians 3:7 (id: 169893)

**Who are the sons of Abraham?**

Those who believe God are the sons of Abraham.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 3:7

## Galatians 3:8 (id: 169894)

**The scripture foresaw that the Gentiles would be justified in what way?**

The scripture foresaw that the Gentiles would be justified by faith.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 3:8

## Galatians 3:10 (id: 169895)

**Those who rely on the works of the law to be justified are under what?**

Those who rely on the works of the law to be justified are under a curse.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 3:10

## Galatians 3:11 (id: 169896)

**How many people have been justified by God through the works of the law?**

No one has been justified through the works of the law.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 3:11

## Galatians 3:13–14 (id: 169897)

**Why did Christ redeem us by becoming a curse for us?**

Christ redeemed us by becoming a curse for us so that the blessing upon Abraham might come to the Gentiles.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 3:13–GAL 3:14

## Galatians 3:16 (id: 169898)

**Who was the “descendant” that was spoken of in the promise to Abraham?**

The “descendant” spoken of in the promise to Abraham was Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 3:16

## Galatians 3:17 (id: 169899)

**Did the coming of the Jewish law 430 years after Abraham void the promise God made to Abraham?**

No, the law did not void the promise made to Abraham.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 3:17

## Galatians 3:19 (id: 169900)

**Why then was there the law?**

The law came because of transgressions until Abraham’s descendant came.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 3:19

## Galatians 3:22 (id: 169901)

**What did the law in scripture imprison everyone under?**

The law in scripture imprisoned everyone under sin.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 3:22

## Galatians 3:23–26 (id: 169902)

**How are we released from the imprisonment of the law?**

We are released from the imprisonment of the law by faith in Christ Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 3:23–GAL 3:26

## Galatians 3:27 (id: 169903)

**Who has been clothed in Christ?**

All who have been baptized into Christ have been clothed in Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 3:27

## Galatians 3:28 (id: 169904)

**What different kinds of persons are made one in Christ Jesus?**

Jews, Greeks, slaves, free, male, and female are all made one in Christ Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 3:28

## Galatians 4:1–2 (id: 169905)

**How does the heir of an estate live while he is a child?**

The heir lives like a slave under guardians and trustees until the time set by his father.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:1–GAL 4:2

## Galatians 4:4–5 (id: 169906)

**What did God do at the right time in history?**

At the right time, God sent forth his Son to redeem those under the law.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:4–GAL 4:5

## Galatians 4:5 (id: 169907)

**How did God bring children who were under the law into his family?**

God adopted as sons the children who were under the law.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:5

## Galatians 4:6 (id: 169908)

**What does God send forth into the hearts of his children?**

God sends forth the Spirit of his Son into the hearts of his children.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:6

## Galatians 4:8 (id: 169909)

**Before we know God, to whom are we slaves?**

Before we know God, we are slaves to the spirits that rule the world, who are not gods at all.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:8

## Galatians 4:9 (id: 169910)

**Paul was perplexed that the Galatians were returning to what?**

Paul was perplexed that the Galatians were returning again to the ruling spirits of the world.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:9

## Galatians 4:9–11 (id: 169911)

**As he sees the Galatians turning back, what does Paul fear for them?**

Paul fears that the Galatians will become slaves again, and that he has labored in vain over them.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:9–GAL 4:11

## Galatians 4:13 (id: 169912)

**When Paul first came to the Galatians, what problem did he have?**

When Paul first came to the Galatians, he had a physical illness.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:13

## Galatians 4:14 (id: 169913)

**Despite Paul’s problem, how did the Galatians receive him?**

Despite Paul’s problem, the Galatians received Paul as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:14

## Galatians 4:17 (id: 169914)

**Who are the false teachers in Galatia trying to separate?**

The false teachers are trying to separate the Galatians from Paul.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:17

## Galatians 4:20–21 (id: 169915)

**Under what are the false teachers trying to put the Galatians?**

The false teachers are trying to put the Galatians back under the law.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:20–GAL 4:21

## Galatians 4:22 (id: 169916)

**From which two kinds of women did Abraham have two sons?**

Abraham had two sons, one from a slave woman and one from a free woman.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:22

## Galatians 4:26 (id: 169917)

**Who is the symbolic mother of Paul and the believing Galatians?**

The Jerusalem above, the free woman, is the symbolic mother of Paul and the believing Galatians.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:26

## Galatians 4:28 (id: 169918)

**Are believers in Christ children of the flesh or children of the promise?**

Believers in Christ are children of the promise.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:28

## Galatians 4:29 (id: 169919)

**Who persecutes the children of the promise?**

The children of the flesh persecute the children of the promise.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:29

## Galatians 4:30 (id: 169920)

**With whom do the children of the slave woman not inherit?**

The children of the slave woman do not inherit with the children of the free woman.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:30

## Galatians 4:31 (id: 169921)

**Are believers in Christ children of the slave woman or children of the free woman?**

Believers in Christ are children of the free woman.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 4:31

## Galatians 5:1 (id: 169922)

**For what purpose has Christ set us free?**

For freedom Christ has set us free.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 5:1

## Galatians 5:2 (id: 169923)

**What did Paul warn the Galatians would happen if they became circumcised?**

Paul said that if the Galatians became circumcised, Christ would not benefit them in any way.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 5:2

## Galatians 5:4 (id: 169924)

**What did Paul warn would happen to all the Galatians who would seek to be justified by following the law?**

Paul warned that all the Galatians who would seek to be justified by following the law would be alienated from Christ and would fall away from grace.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 5:4

## Galatians 5:6 (id: 169925)

**As opposed to circumcision and uncircumcised, what is the only thing that means anything in Christ Jesus?**

In Christ Jesus, only faith working through love means anything.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 5:6

## Galatians 5:10 (id: 169926)

**Of what is Paul confident regarding the one who has confused the Galatians about the gospel?**

Paul is confident that the one who has confused the Galatians about the gospel will bear God’s judgment.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 5:10

## Galatians 5:11 (id: 169927)

**Paul says that proclaiming circumcision does what?**

Paul says that in proclaiming circumcision, the stumbling block of the cross would be destroyed.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 5:11

## Galatians 5:13 (id: 169928)

**How are believers not to use their freedom in Christ?**

Believers are to not use their freedom in Christ as an opportunity for the flesh.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 5:13

## Galatians 5:13 (#2) (id: 169929)

**How are believers to use their freedom in Christ?**

Believers are to use their freedom in Christ to serve one another in love.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 5:13

## Galatians 5:14 (id: 169930)

**The whole law is fulfilled in what one commandment?**

The whole law is fulfilled in the commandment, “You must love your neighbor as yourself”.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 5:14

## Galatians 5:16 (id: 169931)

**How can believers not fulfill the lust of the flesh?**

Believers can live by the Spirit, and thus, not fulfill the lust of the flesh.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 5:16

## Galatians 5:17 (id: 169932)

**What two things are opposed to each other within the believer?**

The Spirit and the flesh are opposed to each other within the believer.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 5:17

## Galatians 5:20–21 (id: 169933)

**What are three examples of works of the flesh?**

Three examples of works of the flesh are any three of the following list: sexual immorality, impurity, lustfulness, idolatry, sorcery, hostility, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, rivalry, dissension, sectarian division, envy, drunkenness, and drunken riots.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 5:20–GAL 5:21

## Galatians 5:21 (id: 169934)

**What will those who practice the works of the flesh not receive?**

Those who practice the works of the flesh will not inherit the kingdom of God.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 5:21

## Galatians 5:22–23 (id: 169935)

**What is the fruit of the Spirit?**

The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faith, gentleness, and self\-control.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 5:22–GAL 5:23

## Galatians 5:24 (id: 169936)

**Those who belong to Christ Jesus have done what with the flesh and its passions?**

Those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh and its passions.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 5:24

## Galatians 6:1 (id: 169937)

**What should those who are spiritual do if a man is caught in some transgression?**

Those who are spiritual should restore that man in a spirit of gentleness.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 6:1

## Galatians 6:1 (#2) (id: 169938)

**For what danger must those who are spiritual watch out?**

Those who are spiritual must watch out that they are not also tempted.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 6:1

## Galatians 6:2 (id: 169939)

**How do believers fulfill the law of Christ?**

Believers fulfill the law of Christ by carrying one another’s burdens.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 6:2

## Galatians 6:4 (id: 169940)

**How can a person have something in himself to be proud of regarding his work?**

A person can have something in himself to be proud of by examining his own work, without comparing himself to anyone else.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 6:4

## Galatians 6:6 (id: 169941)

**What must one who is taught the word do with his teacher?**

One who is taught the word must share all good things with his teacher.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 6:6

## Galatians 6:7 (id: 169942)

**What happens to whatever a man spiritually plants?**

Whatever a man spiritually plants he will harvest.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 6:7

## Galatians 6:8 (id: 169943)

**What does a man harvest who plants to his own flesh?**

A man who plants to his own flesh harvests destruction out of his flesh.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 6:8

## Galatians 6:8 (#2) (id: 169944)

**What does a man harvest who plants to the Spirit?**

Out of the Spirit a man who plants to the Spirit harvests eternal life.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 6:8

## Galatians 6:9 (id: 169945)

**If a believer does not give up and continues doing good, what will he receive?**

A believer who continues doing good will reap a harvest.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 6:9

## Galatians 6:10 (id: 169946)

**To whom should believers especially do good?**

Believers should especially do good to those of the household of faith.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 6:10

## Galatians 6:12 (id: 169947)

**What is the motivation of those who want to compel the believers to be circumcised?**

Those who want to compel the believers to be circumcised do not want to be persecuted for the cross of Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 6:12

## Galatians 6:14 (id: 169948)

**Of what did Paul say he was proud?**

Paul said that he was proud of the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 6:14

## Galatians 6:15 (id: 169949)

**Instead of circumcision or uncircumcision, what is important?**

What is important is a new creation.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 6:15

## Galatians 6:16 (id: 169950)

**Upon whom does Paul wish peace and mercy?**

Paul wishes peace and mercy upon those who live by the rule of the new creation and upon the Israel of God.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 6:16

## Galatians 6:17 (id: 169951)

**What did Paul carry on his body?**

Paul carried the marks of Jesus on his body.

* **Associated Passages:** GAL 6:17

