# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Questions_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Ephesians 1:1 (id: 168590)

**How does Paul describe the people he is writing to in this letter?**

Paul describes the people he is writing to as saints, and as faithfully trusting in Christ Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 1:1

## Ephesians 1:3 (id: 168591)

**With what has God the Father blessed believers?**

God the Father has blessed believers with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 1:3

## Ephesians 1:4 (id: 168592)

**When did God the Father choose those who believe in Christ?**

God the Father chose those who believe in Christ before the foundation of the world.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 1:4

## Ephesians 1:4 (#2) (id: 168593)

**For what purpose did God the Father choose the believers?**

God the Father chose the believers so they could be holy and blameless before him.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 1:4

## Ephesians 1:5 (id: 168594)

**Why did God destine the believers in advance for adoption?**

God destined the believers in advance because he was pleased to do it.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 1:5

## Ephesians 1:6 (id: 168595)

**Why did God destine the believers in advance for adoption?**

God destined the believers in advance so that he would be praised for his glorious grace.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 1:6

## Ephesians 1:7 (id: 168596)

**What do believers receive through the blood of Christ, God’s beloved one?**

Believers receive redemption, the forgiveness of their trespasses through the blood Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 1:7

## Ephesians 1:10 (id: 168597)

**What will God do when the times for the completion of his plan come?**

God will bring together everything in heaven and on the earth under Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 1:10

## Ephesians 1:13 (id: 168598)

**What seal did the believers receive when they heard the word of truth?**

The believers were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 1:13

## Ephesians 1:14 (id: 168599)

**Of what is the Spirit a down payment?**

The Spirit is a down payment of the inheritance of believers.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 1:14

## Ephesians 1:18 (id: 168600)

**What does Paul pray the Ephesians will be enlightened to understand?**

Paul prays that the Ephesians will be enlightened to understand the hope of their calling and the glorious riches of Christ’s inheritance in the saints.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 1:18

## Ephesians 1:20 (id: 168601)

**What did the same power that now works in the believers do in Christ?**

The same power raised Christ from the dead and seated him at God’s right hand in the heavenly places.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 1:20

## Ephesians 1:22 (id: 168602)

**What has God put under Christ’s feet?**

God has put all things under Christ’s feet.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 1:22

## Ephesians 1:22 (#2) (id: 168603)

**What is Christ’s position of authority in the Church?**

Christ is the head over all things in the Church.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 1:22

## Ephesians 1:23 (id: 168604)

**What is the Church?**

The Church is Christ’s body.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 1:23

## Ephesians 2:1 (id: 168605)

**What is the spiritual condition of all unbelievers?**

All unbelievers are dead in their trespasses and sins.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:1

## Ephesians 2:2 (id: 168606)

**Who is working in the sons of disobedience?**

The ruler of the authorities of the air is working in the sons of disobedience.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:2

## Ephesians 2:3 (id: 168607)

**By nature, what are all unbelievers?**

All unbelievers are by nature children of wrath.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:3

## Ephesians 2:4 (id: 168608)

**Why is God rich in mercy towards believers?**

God is rich mercy because of his great love.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:4

## Ephesians 2:5 (id: 168609)

**By what have believers been saved?**

Believers have been saved by God’s grace.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:5

## Ephesians 2:6 (id: 168610)

**Where are believers seated?**

Believers are seated in the heavenly places with Christ Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:6

## Ephesians 2:7 (id: 168611)

**For what purpose has God saved and raised up believers?**

God has saved and raised up believers so that in the ages that are coming he might show them the great riches of his grace.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:7

## Ephesians 2:8 (id: 168612)

**How have we been saved?**

We have been saved by grace through faith as God’s gift.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:8

## Ephesians 2:9 (id: 168613)

**Why should believer not boast?**

No believer should boast because he is not saved by his own works.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:9

## Ephesians 2:10 (id: 168614)

**For what purpose has God created believers in Christ Jesus?**

God’s purpose for believers in Christ Jesus is that they should walk in good works.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:10

## Ephesians 2:12 (id: 168615)

**What is the spiritual condition of unbelieving Gentiles?**

Unbelieving Gentiles are separated from Christ, alienated from Israel, strangers to the covenants, without hope and without God.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:12

## Ephesians 2:13 (id: 168616)

**What has brought some Gentile unbelievers near to God?**

Some Gentile unbelievers have been brought near to God by the blood of Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:13

## Ephesians 2:14 (id: 168617)

**How did Christ change the relationship between Gentiles and Jews?**

Christ made believing Gentiles and Jews into one group, destroying the hostility that divided them.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:14

## Ephesians 2:15 (id: 168618)

**What did Christ abolish in order to make peace between Jews and Gentiles?**

Christ abolished the law of commandments and regulations in order to make peace between Jews and Gentiles.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:15

## Ephesians 2:18 (id: 168619)

**By what means do all believers have access to the Father?**

All believers have access to the Father by means of the Holy Spirit.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:18

## Ephesians 2:20 (id: 168620)

**On what foundation is God’s family built?**

God’s family is built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus being the cornerstone.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:20

## Ephesians 2:21 (id: 168621)

**What kind of building are believers becoming?**

They are becoming a holy temple for the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:21

## Ephesians 2:22 (id: 168622)

**Where does God dwell in the Spirit?**

God dwells in the Spirit within believers.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 2:22

## Ephesians 3:2 (id: 168623)

**For whose benefit did God give Paul his stewardship?**

God gave Paul his stewardship for the benefit of the Gentiles.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 3:2

## Ephesians 3:3 (id: 168624)

**What was made known to Paul?**

The revelation about the mystery was made known to Paul.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 3:3

## Ephesians 3:5 (id: 168625)

**To whom has God revealed what was not made known to the human race in other generations?**

God revealed the hidden truth about Christ to his apostles and prophets.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 3:5

## Ephesians 3:6 (id: 168626)

**What hidden truth has been revealed?**

The hidden truth revealed is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs and fellow members of the body, and fellow sharers in the promise in Christ Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 3:6

## Ephesians 3:7 (id: 168627)

**What gift was given to Paul?**

The gift of God’s grace was given to Paul.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 3:7

## Ephesians 3:9 (id: 168628)

**About what was Paul sent to help the Gentiles understand?**

Paul was sent to help the Gentiles understand the administration of the mystery that was hidden from the ages in God.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 3:9

## Ephesians 3:10 (id: 168629)

**Through what will the complex wisdom of God be made known?**

Through the church the complex wisdom of God will be made known.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 3:10

## Ephesians 3:12 (id: 168630)

**What does Paul say believers have because of faith in Christ?**

Paul says believers have boldness and access with confidence because of faith in Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 3:12

## Ephesians 3:15 (id: 168631)

**What is named and created after the Father?**

Every family in heaven and on earth is named and created after the Father.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 3:15

## Ephesians 3:16 (id: 168632)

**How does Paul pray for the believers to be strengthened?**

Paul prays for the believers to be strengthened with power through God’s Spirit.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 3:16

## Ephesians 3:18 (id: 168633)

**What does Paul pray that the believers will be able to understand?**

Paul prays that the believers will be able to understand how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 3:18

## Ephesians 3:21 (id: 168634)

**What does Paul pray will be given to the Father to all generations?**

Paul prays that the glory in the Church and in Christ Jesus will be given to the Father to all generations.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 3:21

## Ephesians 4:1 (id: 168635)

**How does Paul urge believers to live?**

Paul urges believers to walk in a way that is worthy of their calling.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 4:1

## Ephesians 4:7 (id: 168636)

**What did Christ give to each believer after his ascension?**

Christ gave each believer grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 4:7

## Ephesians 4:11 (id: 168637)

**What five types of people does Paul say Christ gave?**

Christ gave apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 4:11

## Ephesians 4:12 (id: 168638)

**What are these five types of people supposed to do for the church?**

These five types of people are supposed to equip the believers for the work of service, for the building up of the body.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 4:12

## Ephesians 4:14 (id: 168639)

**How does Paul say believers can be like children?**

Believers can be like children by being tossed around and carried away by people’s trickery and erring deceit.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 4:14

## Ephesians 4:16 (id: 168640)

**How does Paul say the body of believers is constructed?**

The body of believers fits together, held together by each joint, each part working in the body’s growth, for the building up of each one in love.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 4:16

## Ephesians 4:17 (id: 168641)

**How does Paul say the Gentiles walk?**

The Gentiles walk in the futility of their minds.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 4:17

## Ephesians 4:18 (id: 168642)

**What does Paul say has happened to the understanding of the Gentiles?**

The understanding of the Gentiles has been darkened.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 4:18

## Ephesians 4:19 (id: 168643)

**To what have the Gentiles handed themselves over?**

The Gentiles have handed themselves over to sensuality to do every kind of impurity.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 4:19

## Ephesians 4:22 (id: 168644)

**What does Paul say believers must put off?**

Believers must put off what belongs to the old man.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 4:22

## Ephesians 4:24 (id: 168645)

**What does Paul say believers must put on?**

Believers must put on the new man.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 4:24

## Ephesians 4:27 (id: 168646)

**To whom must a believer never give opportunity?**

A believer must never give opportunity to the devil.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 4:27

## Ephesians 4:28 (id: 168647)

**What must believers do instead of steal?**

Believers must labor so that they may be able to share with the person who has need.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 4:28

## Ephesians 4:29 (id: 168648)

**What kind of talk does Paul say must come out of the believer’s mouth?**

No corrupt talk must come out of the believer’s mouth, but, instead, words that build up others.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 4:29

## Ephesians 4:30 (id: 168649)

**Who must a believer not grieve?**

A believer must not grieve the Holy Spirit.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 4:30

## Ephesians 4:32 (id: 168650)

**What is a believer to do because God in Christ forgave him?**

A believer must forgive others because God in Christ forgave him.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 4:32

## Ephesians 5:1 (id: 168651)

**Who should believers imitate?**

Believers should imitate God the Father as his children.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:1

## Ephesians 5:2 (id: 168652)

**What did Christ do which was a pleasing aroma to God?**

Christ gave himself up for the believers as an offering and sacrifice to God.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:2

## Ephesians 5:3 (id: 168653)

**What must not be suggested among believers?**

Sexual immorality, impurity, and greed must not be suggested among believers.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:3

## Ephesians 5:4 (id: 168654)

**What attitude should instead be seen among believers?**

Believers should instead have an attitude of thankfulness.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:4

## Ephesians 5:5 (id: 168655)

**Who has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God?**

The sexually immoral, impure, and greedy have no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:5

## Ephesians 5:6 (id: 168656)

**What is coming upon the children of disobedience?**

The wrath of God is coming upon the children of disobedience.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:6

## Ephesians 5:9 (id: 168657)

**What fruit of the light is pleasing to the Lord?**

The fruit of goodness, righteousness, and truth is pleasing to the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:9

## Ephesians 5:11 (id: 168658)

**What are believers to do with the works of the darkness?**

Believers are not to participate with, but instead expose, the works of darkness.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:11

## Ephesians 5:13 (id: 168659)

**What is revealed by the light?**

Everything is revealed by the light.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:13

## Ephesians 5:16 (id: 168660)

**What should believers do since the days are evil?**

Believers should redeem the time since the days are evil.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:16

## Ephesians 5:18 (id: 168661)

**What leads to recklessness?**

Getting drunk with wine leads to recklessness.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:18

## Ephesians 5:19 (id: 168662)

**With what should believers speak to each other?**

Believers should speak to each other with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:19

## Ephesians 5:22 (id: 168663)

**In what way should wives be subject to their husbands?**

Wives should be subject to their husbands as to the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:22

## Ephesians 5:23 (id: 168664)

**Of what is the husband the head, and of what is Christ the head?**

The husband is head of the wife, and Christ is head of the Church.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:23

## Ephesians 5:26 (id: 168665)

**How does Christ sanctify the Church?**

Christ sanctifies the Church holy by the washing her of water with the word.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:26

## Ephesians 5:28 (id: 168666)

**How should husbands love their wives?**

Husbands should love their wives as their own bodies.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:28

## Ephesians 5:29 (id: 168667)

**How does a person treat his own body?**

A person nourishes and loves his own body.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:29

## Ephesians 5:31 (id: 168668)

**What happens when a man is joined to his wife?**

When a man is joined to his wife, they become one flesh.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:31

## Ephesians 5:32 (id: 168669)

**What hidden truth is demonstrated by the joining of a man and his wife?**

The hidden truth about Christ and his Church is demonstrated by the joining of a man and his wife.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 5:32

## Ephesians 6:1 (id: 168670)

**How should Christian children treat their parents?**

Christian children should obey their parents.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 6:1

## Ephesians 6:4 (id: 168671)

**What are Christian fathers to do for their children?**

Christian fathers are to raise their children in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 6:4

## Ephesians 6:5 (id: 168672)

**With what attitude should Christian slaves obey their masters?**

Christian slaves should obey their masters in the honesty of their heart as for the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 6:5

## Ephesians 6:8 (id: 168673)

**What should a believer remember about whatever good deed he does?**

A believer should remember that for whatever good deed he does, he will receive a reward from the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 6:8

## Ephesians 6:9 (id: 168674)

**What should a Christian master remember about his Master?**

A Christian master should remember that his and his servant’s Master is in heaven, and that there is no favoritism with him.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 6:9

## Ephesians 6:11 (id: 168675)

**Why must a believer put on the whole armor of God?**

A believer must put on the whole armor of God to stand against the wicked plans of the devil.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 6:11

## Ephesians 6:12 (id: 168676)

**Against whom does a believer battle?**

A believer battles against governments and rulers of the realm of darkness and against spiritual forces of evil.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 6:12

## Ephesians 6:13 (id: 168677)

**Why must a believer put on the whole armor of God?**

A believer must put on the whole armor of God to stand against the wicked plans of the devil.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 6:13

## Ephesians 6:16 (id: 168678)

**Which piece of the armor of God puts out the flaming arrows of the evil one?**

The shield of faith puts out the flaming arrows of the evil one.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 6:16

## Ephesians 6:17 (id: 168679)

**What is the sword of the Spirit?**

The sword of the Spirit is the word of God.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 6:17

## Ephesians 6:18 (id: 168680)

**How should believers conduct themselves in prayer?**

Believers should pray at all times, persevering and watching for God’s answer.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 6:18

## Ephesians 6:19 (id: 168681)

**What does Paul wish to have through the prayers of the Ephesians?**

Paul wishes to have the word given to him with boldness when he speaks the gospel.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 6:19

## Ephesians 6:20 (id: 168682)

**Where is Paul as he writes this letter?**

Paul is in chains in prison as he writes this letter.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 6:20

## Ephesians 6:23 (id: 168683)

**What does Paul ask that God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give the believers?**

Paul asks that God will give them peace and love with faith.

* **Associated Passages:** EPH 6:23

