# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Philippians 1:1 (id: 176444)

**To whom did Paul address this letter?**

Paul addressed this letter to all the people who are set apart in Christ Jesus at Philippi, including the overseers and deacons.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:1

## Philippians 1:5 (id: 176445)

**For what did Paul give thanks to God for the Philippians?**

Paul gave thanks to God for the Philippians’ fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:5

## Philippians 1:6 (id: 176446)

**Of what was Paul confident regarding the Philippians?**

Paul was confident that he who had begun a good work in them would complete it.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:6

## Philippians 1:7 (id: 176447)

**In what had the Philippians been Paul’s partners?**

In Paul’s imprisonment, and in his defense and confirmation of the gospel, the Philippians had been his partners.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:7

## Philippians 1:9 (id: 176448)

**What did Paul pray would increase more and more among the Philippians?**

Paul prayed that love would increase more and more among the Philippians.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:9

## Philippians 1:11 (id: 176449)

**With what did Paul desire that the Philippians be filled?**

Paul desired that the Philippians be filled with the fruits of righteousness.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:11

## Philippians 1:12–14 (id: 176450)

**How had Paul’s imprisonment advanced the gospel?**

Paul’s imprisonment for Christ had become widely known, and most of the brothers were now speaking with more boldness.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:12–PHP 1:14

## Philippians 1:17 (id: 176451)

**Why were some proclaiming Christ out of selfish and insincere motives?**

Some were proclaiming Christ out of selfish and insincere motives thinking they were adding to Paul’s affliction in prison.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:17

## Philippians 1:18 (id: 176452)

**What was Paul’s reaction to the sincere and insincere preaching of Christ?**

Paul rejoiced that, either way, Christ was being proclaimed.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:18

## Philippians 1:20 (id: 176453)

**What did Paul desire to do in life or by death?**

Paul desired to bring glory to Christ either in life or by death.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:20

## Philippians 1:21 (id: 176454)

**Paul said that to live is what, and to die is what?**

Paul said that to live is Christ, and to die is gain.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:21

## Philippians 1:22–24 (id: 176455)

**What choices pulled Paul in different directions?**

Paul was pulled by the choices of being with Christ in death or of remaining in the flesh to continue his labor.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:22–PHP 1:24

## Philippians 1:25 (id: 176456)

**For what purpose was Paul confident that he would remain with the Philippians?**

Paul was confident that he would remain with the Philippians for their progress and joy in the faith.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:25

## Philippians 1:27 (id: 176457)

**Whether with the Philippians or away from them, what did Paul want to hear about the Philippians?**

Paul wanted to hear that the Philippians stood fast in one spirit, with one soul striving together for the faith of the gospel.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:27

## Philippians 1:28 (id: 176458)

**When the Philippians did not fear those opposing them, of what was that a sign?**

When the Philippians did not fear those opposing them, it was a sign of their opponents’ destruction, but of the believers' salvation.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:28

## Philippians 1:29 (id: 176459)

**What two things had been granted to the Philippians by God?**

It had been granted to the Philippians that they believe on Christ, but also that they suffer on his behalf.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:29

## Philippians 2:2 (id: 176460)

**What does Paul say the Philippians must do to make his joy full?**

The Philippians must be of the same mind, have the same love, and be united in spirit and mind.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 2:2

## Philippians 2:3 (id: 176461)

**How does Paul say the Philippians should consider each other?**

The Philippians should consider each other better than themselves.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 2:3

## Philippians 2:5–6 (id: 176462)

**Whose mind does Paul say we need to have?**

Paul says we need to have the mind of Christ Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 2:5–PHP 2:6

## Philippians 2:6 (id: 176463)

**In what form did Christ Jesus exist?**

Christ Jesus existed in the form of God.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 2:6

## Philippians 2:7 (id: 176464)

**What form did Christ Jesus then take?**

Christ Jesus then took the form of a servant, in the appearance of a man.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 2:7

## Philippians 2:8 (id: 176465)

**How did Jesus humble himself?**

Jesus humbled himself by obeying to the point of death on the cross.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 2:8

## Philippians 2:9 (id: 176466)

**What did God then do for Jesus?**

God highly exalted Jesus and gave him the name above every name.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 2:9

## Philippians 2:11 (id: 176467)

**What will every tongue confess?**

Every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 2:11

## Philippians 2:12 (id: 176468)

**How are the Philippians called to work out their salvation?**

The Philippians are to work out their salvation with fear and trembling.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 2:12

## Philippians 2:13 (id: 176469)

**What does God work in believers to do?**

God works in believers both to will and to work for his good pleasure.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 2:13

## Philippians 2:14 (id: 176470)

**Everything must be done without what?**

Everything must be done without complaining and arguing.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 2:14

## Philippians 2:17 (id: 176471)

**For what purpose is Paul pouring out his life?**

Paul is pouring out his life in the sacrifice and service of the Philippian’s faith.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 2:17

## Philippians 2:20 (id: 176472)

**Why is Timothy a unique helper for Paul?**

Timothy is unique because he truly cares for the Philippians.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 2:20

## Philippians 2:24 (id: 176473)

**Is Paul expecting to see the Philippians?**

Yes, Paul expects to see the Philippians soon.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 2:24

## Philippians 2:30 (id: 176474)

**For what did Epaphroditus almost die?**

Epaphroditus almost died doing the work of Christ, serving Paul and supplying Paul’s needs.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 2:30

## Philippians 3:2 (id: 176475)

**For whom does Paul warn the believers to watch out?**

Paul warns the believers to watch out for the dogs, the evil workers, and the mutilators.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 3:2

## Philippians 3:3 (id: 176476)

**Who does Paul say are the true circumcision?**

Paul says the true circumcision are those who worship in the Spirit of God, glory in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 3:3

## Philippians 3:6 (id: 176477)

**How does Paul describe his previous conduct in respect to the righteousness of the law?**

Paul describes his previous conduct as blameless in respect to the righteousness of the law.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 3:6

## Philippians 3:7 (id: 176478)

**How does Paul now regard his previous confidence in the flesh?**

Paul now counts all his previous confidence in the flesh as worthless because of Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 3:7

## Philippians 3:8 (id: 176479)

**For what purpose does Paul now consider all the previous things as garbage?**

Paul considers all the previous things as garbage so that he may gain Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 3:8

## Philippians 3:9 (id: 176480)

**What righteousness does Paul now have?**

Paul now has the righteousness from God that is through faith in Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 3:9

## Philippians 3:10 (id: 176481)

**Paul has fellowship with Christ in what?**

Paul has the fellowship of Christ’s sufferings.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 3:10

## Philippians 3:12 (id: 176482)

**Although he is not yet complete, what does Paul continue to do?**

Paul pursues perfection to grasp the reason for which Jesus grasped him.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 3:12

## Philippians 3:14 (id: 176483)

**Toward what goal does Paul press on?**

Paul presses on toward the goal to win the prize of the upward calling of God in Christ Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 3:14

## Philippians 3:17 (id: 176484)

**What does Paul tell the Philippians to do regarding the example of his walk?**

Paul tells the Philippians to join and imitate him in his walk.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 3:17

## Philippians 3:19 (id: 176485)

**What is the destiny of those whose god is their belly and who think about earthly things?**

Those whose god is their belly and who think about earthly things are destined for destruction.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 3:19

## Philippians 3:20 (id: 176486)

**Where does Paul say the citizenship of believers is located?**

Paul says the citizenship of believers is in heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 3:20

## Philippians 3:21 (id: 176487)

**What will Christ do to the bodies of believers when he comes from heaven?**

Christ will transform the lowly bodies of believers into bodies formed like his glorious body.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 3:21

## Philippians 4:1 (id: 176488)

**What does Paul want his beloved friends in Philippi to do?**

Paul wants the Philippians to stand firm in the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 4:1

## Philippians 4:2 (id: 176489)

**What does Paul wish to see happen with Euodia and Syntyche?**

Paul wishes to see Euodia and Syntyche have the same mind in the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 4:2

## Philippians 4:4 (id: 176490)

**What does Paul tell the Philippians to always do?**

Paul tells them to rejoice in the Lord always.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 4:4

## Philippians 4:6 (id: 176491)

**Instead of being anxious, what does Paul say to do?**

Paul says that instead of being anxious, we are to tell God in prayer what we need, and thank him.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 4:6

## Philippians 4:7 (id: 176492)

**If we do this, what will guard our hearts and thoughts?**

If we do this, the peace of God will guard our hearts and thoughts.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 4:7

## Philippians 4:8 (id: 176493)

**Upon what kinds of things does Paul say to think?**

Paul says to think upon things that are honorable, just, pure, lovely, of good report, excellent, and praiseworthy.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 4:8

## Philippians 4:10 (id: 176494)

**What have the Philippians now been able to renew?**

The Philippians have now been able to renew their concern for Paul.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 4:10

## Philippians 4:11–12 (id: 176495)

**What secret has Paul learned about living in different circumstances?**

Paul has learned the secret of living contently in both abundance and need.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 4:11–PHP 4:12

## Philippians 4:13 (id: 176496)

**By what power can Paul live contently?**

Paul can live contently in all circumstances through Christ, who strengthens him.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 4:13

## Philippians 4:17 (id: 176497)

**What does Paul seek for the Philippians in their giving to provide for his needs?**

Paul seeks the fruit that increases to the Philippians’ account.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 4:17

## Philippians 4:18 (id: 176498)

**How does God view the gift made by the Philippians to Paul?**

God is pleased with the gift that the Philippians have made to Paul.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 4:18

## Philippians 4:19 (id: 176499)

**What does Paul say God will do for the Philippians?**

Paul says that God will supply every need of the Philippians according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 4:19

## Philippians 4:22 (id: 176500)

**Paul says that those of which household greet the Philippians?**

Those of Caesar’s household greet the Philippians.

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 4:22

