# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Colossians 1:1 (id: 167713)

**How did Paul become an apostle of Christ Jesus?**

Paul became an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:1

## Colossians 1:2 (id: 167714)

**To whom did Paul write this letter?**

Paul wrote to those set apart for God and the faithful brothers at Colossae.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:2

## Colossians 1:5 (id: 167715)

**From where did the Colossians hear about the confident expectation that they now have?**

The Colossians heard about their confident expectation in the word of truth, the gospel.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:5

## Colossians 1:6 (id: 167716)

**What does Paul say the gospel has been doing in the world?**

Paul says the gospel has been bearing fruit and growing in all the world.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:6

## Colossians 1:7 (id: 167717)

**Who presented the gospel to the Colossians?**

Epaphras, the faithful servant of Christ, presented the gospel to the Colossians.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:7

## Colossians 1:9 (id: 167718)

**With what does Paul pray that the Colossians be filled?**

Paul prays that the Colossians be filled with the knowledge of God’s will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:9

## Colossians 1:10 (id: 167719)

**How does Paul pray that the Colossians will walk in their lives?**

Paul prays that the Colossians will walk worthy of the Lord, bearing fruit with good deeds, growing in the knowledge of God.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:10

## Colossians 1:12 (id: 167720)

**For what have those set apart for God been qualified?**

Those set apart for God have been qualified for a share in the inheritance in the light.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:12

## Colossians 1:13 (id: 167721)

**From what has the Father rescued those set apart for him?**

He rescued them from the dominion of darkness and transferred them to the kingdom of his Son.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:13

## Colossians 1:14 (id: 167722)

**In Christ, we have redemption, which is what?**

In Christ we have redemption, which is the forgiveness of sins.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:14

## Colossians 1:15 (id: 167723)

**The Son is the image of whom?**

The Son is the image of the invisible God.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:15

## Colossians 1:16 (id: 167724)

**What was created through Jesus Christ and for him?**

All things were created through Jesus Christ and for him.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:16

## Colossians 1:20 (id: 167725)

**How did God reconcile all things to himself?**

God reconciled all things to himself when he made peace through his Son’s blood.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:20

## Colossians 1:21 (id: 167726)

**What relationship did the Colossians have with God before they believed the gospel?**

Before believing the gospel, the Colossians were separated from God and were his enemies.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:21

## Colossians 1:23 (id: 167727)

**What must the Colossians continue to do?**

The Colossians must continue to be settled in the faith and confident of the gospel.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:23

## Colossians 1:24 (id: 167728)

**For whose sake is Paul suffering, and what is his attitude?**

Paul is suffering for the sake of the church, and he rejoices in it.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:24

## Colossians 1:27 (id: 167729)

**What is the mystery that was hidden for ages but now has been revealed?**

The mystery that was hidden for ages but now has been revealed is Christ in you, the confidence of glory.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:27

## Colossians 1:28 (id: 167730)

**What is the goal for which Paul is admonishing and teaching every man?**

Paul’s goal is to present every person complete in Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 1:28

## Colossians 2:2 (id: 167731)

**What is the mystery of God?**

The mystery of God is Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:2

## Colossians 2:3 (id: 167732)

**What is hidden in Christ?**

All the hidden treasures of wisdom and knowledge are hidden in Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:3

## Colossians 2:4 (id: 167733)

**What is Paul concerned that might happen to the Colossians?**

Paul is concerned that the Colossians might be deceived with persuasive speech.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:4

## Colossians 2:6 (id: 167734)

**What does Paul call the Colossians to do now that they have received Christ Jesus?**

Paul calls the Colossians to walk in Christ Jesus in the same way that they received him.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:6

## Colossians 2:8 (id: 167735)

**Upon what are the empty deceits that Paul is concerned about based?**

The empty deceits are based upon human tradition and the sinful belief systems of the world.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:8

## Colossians 2:9 (id: 167736)

**What lives in Christ?**

All the fullness of God’s nature lives in Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:9

## Colossians 2:10 (id: 167737)

**Who is the head of all rule and authority?**

Christ is the head of all rule and authority.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:10

## Colossians 2:11 (id: 167738)

**What is removed through the circumcision of Christ?**

The sinful body of flesh is removed through the circumcision of Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:11

## Colossians 2:12 (id: 167739)

**What happens in baptism?**

A person is buried with Christ in baptism.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:12

## Colossians 2:13 (id: 167740)

**What is a person’s condition before Christ makes him alive?**

A person is dead in his sins before Christ makes him alive.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:13

## Colossians 2:14 (id: 167741)

**What did Christ do with the record of debts charged against us?**

Christ removed the record of debts and nailed it to the cross.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:14

## Colossians 2:15 (id: 167742)

**What did Christ do with the rulers and authorities?**

Christ removed the rulers and authorities, openly exposed them, and led them as his captives in a victory procession.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:15

## Colossians 2:16 (id: 167743)

**What does Paul say are a shadow of the things to come?**

Paul says that food, drink, feast days, and Sabbaths are a shadow of the things to come.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:16

## Colossians 2:17 (id: 167744)

**To what reality do the shadows point?**

The shadows point to the reality of Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:17

## Colossians 2:19 (id: 167745)

**From what does the whole body grow with the growth from God?**

The whole body holds fast to Christ, the head, to grow with the growth from God.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:19

## Colossians 2:21 (id: 167746)

**What kinds of commandments does Paul say are part of the world’s beliefs?**

Commandments to not handle, not taste, and not touch are part of the world’s beliefs.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:21

## Colossians 2:23 (id: 167747)

**Against what do the rules of man\-made religion have no value?**

The rules of man\-made religion have no value against the indulgence of the flesh.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 2:23

## Colossians 3:1 (id: 167748)

**To where has Christ been raised?**

Christ has been raised to sit at the right hand of God.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:1

## Colossians 3:1–2 (id: 167749)

**What should believers seek, and what should they not seek?**

Believers should seek the things above and not the things of the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:1–COL 3:2

## Colossians 3:3 (id: 167750)

**Where has God put the believer’s life?**

God has hidden the believer’s life in Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:3

## Colossians 3:4 (id: 167751)

**What will happen to the believer when Christ is revealed?**

When Christ is revealed, the believer will also be revealed with him in glory.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:4

## Colossians 3:5 (id: 167752)

**What must the believer put to death?**

The believer must put to death the sinful desires of the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:5

## Colossians 3:6 (id: 167753)

**What happens to those who are disobedient to God?**

The wrath of God comes upon those who are disobedient to God.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:6

## Colossians 3:8 (id: 167754)

**What are some of the things that Paul says the believers must get rid of, which are part of the old self?**

The believers must get rid of wrath, anger, evil intentions, insults, and obscene speech.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:8

## Colossians 3:10 (id: 167755)

**In whose image is the believer’s new self created?**

The believer’s new self is created in the image of Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:10

## Colossians 3:12 (id: 167756)

**What are some of the things that Paul says the believers must put on, which are part of the new self?**

The believers must put on a heart of compassion, kindness, lowliness, meekness, and patience.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:12

## Colossians 3:13 (id: 167757)

**In what way should the believer forgive?**

The believer should forgive in the same way that the Lord has forgiven him.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:13

## Colossians 3:14 (id: 167758)

**What is the bond of perfection among believers?**

Love is the bond of perfection.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:14

## Colossians 3:15 (id: 167759)

**What should rule in the believer’s heart?**

The peace of Christ should rule in the believer’s heart.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:15

## Colossians 3:15–17 (id: 167761)

**What should the believer give to God in his attitude, song, word, and deed?**

In his attitude, song, word, and deed, the believer should give thanks to God.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:15–COL 3:17

## Colossians 3:16 (id: 167760)

**What should live in the believer richly?**

The word of Christ should live in the believer richly.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:16

## Colossians 3:18 (id: 167762)

**How should a wife respond to her husband?**

A wife should submit to her husband.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:18

## Colossians 3:19 (id: 167763)

**How should a husband treat his wife?**

A husband should love his wife and not be bitter against her.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:19

## Colossians 3:20 (id: 167764)

**How should a child treat his parents?**

A child should obey his parents in all things.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:20

## Colossians 3:21 (id: 167765)

**What should a father not do to his children?**

A father should not provoke his children.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:21

## Colossians 3:23–24 (id: 167766)

**For whom are believers working in whatever they do?**

Believers are working for the Lord in whatever they do.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:23–COL 3:24

## Colossians 3:24 (id: 167767)

**What will those receive who serve the Lord in whatever they do?**

Those who serve the Lord in whatever they do will receive the reward of the inheritance.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:24

## Colossians 3:25 (id: 167768)

**What will those receive who do unrighteousness?**

Those who do unrighteousness will receive the penalty for what they did.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 3:25

## Colossians 4:1 (id: 167769)

**What does Paul remind earthly masters that they also have?**

Paul reminds earthly masters that they also have a master in heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 4:1

## Colossians 4:2 (id: 167770)

**In what does Paul want the Colossians to continue steadfastly?**

Paul wants the Colossians to continue steadfastly in prayer.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 4:2

## Colossians 4:3 (id: 167771)

**For what does Paul want the Colossians to pray?**

Paul wants the Colossians to pray that he has an open door to speak the word, the mystery of Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 4:3

## Colossians 4:5–6 (id: 167772)

**How does Paul instruct the Colossians to treat those who are outsiders?**

Paul instructs them to live in wisdom, and speak with grace toward those who are outsiders.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 4:5–COL 4:6

## Colossians 4:7–9 (id: 167773)

**What task had Paul given Tychicus and Onesimus?**

Paul gave them the task of making everything known concerning him to the Colossians.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 4:7–COL 4:9

## Colossians 4:10 (id: 167774)

**What instructions did Paul give concerning Mark, the cousin of Barnabus?**

Paul told the Colossians to receive Mark if he comes to them.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 4:10

## Colossians 4:12 (id: 167775)

**For what does Epaphras pray for the Colossians?**

He prays that the Colossians will stand complete and fully assured in all the will of God.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 4:12

## Colossians 4:14 (id: 167776)

**What is the name of the physician that is with Paul?**

The physician’s name is Luke.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 4:14

## Colossians 4:15 (id: 167777)

**In what kind of place was the church in Laodicea meeting?**

The church in Laodicea was meeting in a house.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 4:15

## Colossians 4:16 (id: 167778)

**To what other church had Paul also written a letter?**

Paul also had written a letter to the church in Laodicea.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 4:16

## Colossians 4:18 (id: 167779)

**How did Paul show that this letter was actually from him?**

Paul wrote his name in his own handwriting at the end of the letter.

* **Associated Passages:** COL 4:18

