# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## 1 Timothy 1:1 (id: 165779)

**How was Paul made an apostle of Christ Jesus?**

Paul was made an apostle by to the commandment of God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 1:1

## 1 Timothy 1:2 (id: 165780)

**What was the relationship between Paul and Timothy?**

Timothy was Paul’s true son in the faith.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 1:2

## 1 Timothy 1:3 (id: 165781)

**Where did Paul urge Timothy to remain?**

He urged Timothy to remain in Ephesus.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 1:3

## 1 Timothy 1:3 (#2) (id: 165782)

**What was Timothy to command certain people not to do?**

He was to command them not to teach differently.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 1:3

## 1 Timothy 1:5 (id: 165783)

**What did Paul say was the goal of his commandment and teaching?**

The goal of his commandment was love from a pure heart, from a good conscience, and from sincere faith.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 1:5

## 1 Timothy 1:9 (id: 165784)

**For whom is the law made?**

The law is for lawless, rebellious, ungodly people, and sinners.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 1:9

## 1 Timothy 1:13 (id: 165785)

**What sins did Paul formerly commit?**

Paul was a blasphemer, persecutor, and a violent man.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 1:13

## 1 Timothy 1:14 (id: 165786)

**What overflowed to Paul, resulting in Paul becoming an apostle of Jesus Christ?**

The grace of our Lord overflowed with faith and love to Paul.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 1:14

## 1 Timothy 1:15 (id: 165787)

**Who did Christ Jesus come into the world to save?**

Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 1:15

## 1 Timothy 1:16 (id: 165788)

**Why does Paul say God gave him mercy?**

God gave Paul mercy so that Jesus could demonstrate his patience in Paul as an example.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 1:16

## 1 Timothy 1:18 (id: 165789)

**What did Paul tell Timothy to do in accordance with the prophecies made about Timothy?**

Paul tells Timothy to fight the good fight.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 1:18

## 1 Timothy 1:19 (id: 165790)

**What happened to some who rejected their faith and their good conscience?**

These people have shipwrecked regarding the faith.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 1:19

## 1 Timothy 1:20 (id: 165791)

**What did Paul do for those men who had rejected faith and a good conscience and had shipwrecked their faith?**

Paul gave them over to Satan so that they may be taught not to blaspheme.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 1:20

## 1 Timothy 2:1 (id: 165792)

**For whom does Paul request that prayers be made?**

Paul requests prayers be made for all people.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 2:1

## 1 Timothy 2:2 (id: 165793)

**What kind of life does Paul desire Christians be allowed to live?**

Paul desires that Christians be allowed to live a peaceful and quiet life in all godliness and dignity.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 2:2

## 1 Timothy 2:4 (id: 165794)

**What does God desire for all people?**

God desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 2:4

## 1 Timothy 2:5 (id: 165795)

**What is the position of Christ Jesus between God and man?**

Christ Jesus is the one mediator between God and man.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 2:5

## 1 Timothy 2:6 (id: 165796)

**What did Christ Jesus do for all?**

Christ Jesus gave himself as a ransom for all.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 2:6

## 1 Timothy 2:7 (id: 165797)

**Who does the apostle Paul teach?**

Paul is a teacher of the Gentiles.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 2:7

## 1 Timothy 2:8 (id: 165798)

**What does Paul want men to do?**

Paul wants men to pray and lift up holy hands.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 2:8

## 1 Timothy 2:9 (id: 165799)

**What does Paul want women to do?**

Paul wants women to dress modestly and with self\-control.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 2:9

## 1 Timothy 2:12 (id: 165800)

**What does Paul not permit a woman to do?**

Paul does not permit a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 2:12

## 1 Timothy 2:13 (id: 165801)

**What is the first reason that Paul gives for not permitting a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man?**

Paul’s first reason is that Adam was formed first.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 2:13

## 1 Timothy 2:14 (id: 165802)

**What is the second reason that Paul gives for not permitting a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man?**

Paul’s second reason is that Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 2:14

## 1 Timothy 2:15 (id: 165803)

**In what does Paul want women to remain?**

Paul wants women to continue in faith and love and sanctification with self\-control.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 2:15

## 1 Timothy 3:1 (id: 165804)

**What kind of work is the work of an overseer?**

The work of an overseer is good work.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 3:1

## 1 Timothy 3:2 (id: 165805)

**What must an overseer be able to do?**

An overseer must be able to teach.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 3:2

## 1 Timothy 3:3 (id: 165806)

**How must an overseer handle alcohol and money?**

An overseer must not be a drunkard, and must not love money.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 3:3

## 1 Timothy 3:4 (id: 165807)

**How should an overseer’s children treat him?**

An overseer’s children must obey and honor him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 3:4

## 1 Timothy 3:5 (id: 165808)

**Why is it important that an overseer manage his household well?**

It is important because if he cannot manage his household well, he will likely not care well for a church.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 3:5

## 1 Timothy 3:6 (id: 165809)

**What is the danger if the overseer is a new convert?**

The danger is that he will be puffed up and fall into condemnation.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 3:6

## 1 Timothy 3:7 (id: 165810)

**What must an overseer’s reputation be with those outside the church?**

An overseer must have a good reputation with those outside the church.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 3:7

## 1 Timothy 3:10 (id: 165811)

**What should be done with deacons before they serve?**

Before they serve, deacons should be tested.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 3:10

## 1 Timothy 3:11 (id: 165812)

**What are some characteristics of godly women?**

Godly women are dignified, not slanderers, sober, and trustworthy in everything.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 3:11

## 1 Timothy 3:15 (id: 165813)

**What is the household of God?**

The household of God is the church of the living God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 3:15

## 1 Timothy 3:16 (id: 165814)

**After Jesus appeared in the flesh, was justified by the Spirit, and was seen by angels, what happened?**

Jesus was proclaimed among nations, believed in the world, and taken up in glory.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 3:16

## 1 Timothy 4:1 (id: 165815)

**According to the Spirit, what will some people do in the later times?**

Some people will leave the faith and attend to deceiving spirits and the teachings of demons.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 4:1

## 1 Timothy 4:3 (id: 165816)

**What lies will these people teach?**

They will forbid marriage and forbid eating some foods.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 4:3

## 1 Timothy 4:5 (id: 165817)

**How is anything we eat sanctified for our use?**

Anything we eat is sanctified by the word of God and prayer.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 4:5

## 1 Timothy 4:7 (id: 165818)

**In what does Paul tell Timothy to train himself?**

Paul tells Timothy to train himself in godliness.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 4:7

## 1 Timothy 4:8 (id: 165819)

**Why is training in godliness more profitable than bodily training?**

Training in godliness is more profitable because it holds promise for this present life and the coming one.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 4:8

## 1 Timothy 4:11 (id: 165820)

**What does Paul exhort Timothy to do with all of the good things that he has received in Paul’s teaching to him?**

Paul exhorts Timothy to command and teach these things.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 4:11

## 1 Timothy 4:12 (id: 165821)

**In what ways is Timothy to be an example to others?**

Timothy is to be an example in word, conduct, love, faith, and purity.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 4:12

## 1 Timothy 4:14 (id: 165822)

**How did Timothy receive the spiritual gift that he had?**

The gift was given to Timothy through prophecy, with the imposition of the hands of the elders.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 4:14

## 1 Timothy 4:16 (id: 165823)

**If Timothy continues faithfully in his life and teaching, who will be saved?**

Timothy will save both himself and his listeners.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 4:16

## 1 Timothy 5:1 (id: 165824)

**How did Paul tell Timothy to treat an older man in the church?**

Paul told Timothy to exhort him as if he were a father.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 5:1

## 1 Timothy 5:4 (id: 165825)

**What should children and grandchildren of a widow do for her?**

Children and grandchildren should repay their parents and take care of her.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 5:4

## 1 Timothy 5:8 (id: 165826)

**What has someone done who does not take care of those in his own household?**

He has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 5:8

## 1 Timothy 5:10 (id: 165827)

**For what should a widow be known?**

A widow should be attested for good works.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 5:10

## 1 Timothy 5:11 (id: 165828)

**Why should the church not enroll young widows onto the list of people for the church to care for?**

These younger widows will later want to marry.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 5:11

## 1 Timothy 5:14 (id: 165829)

**What does Paul want younger women to do?**

Paul wants younger women to marry, to bear children, and to manage a household.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 5:14

## 1 Timothy 5:17 (id: 165830)

**What should be done for elders who lead well?**

Elders who lead well should be considered worthy of double honor.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 5:17

## 1 Timothy 5:19 (id: 165831)

**What conditions must be met before someone accuses an elder?**

There must be two or three witnesses when someone accuses an elder.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 5:19

## 1 Timothy 5:21 (id: 165832)

**Paul commands Timothy to be careful to keep these rules in what way?**

Paul commands Timothy to be careful to keep these rules without favoritism.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 5:21

## 1 Timothy 5:24 (id: 165833)

**When do the sins of people become known?**

The sins of some people are evident, but the sins of others are not known until the judgment.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 5:24

## 1 Timothy 6:1 (id: 165834)

**How did Paul say slaves should regard their masters?**

Paul said that slaves should regard their masters as worthy of all honor.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 6:1

## 1 Timothy 6:3–4 (id: 165835)

**What kind of person rejects healthy words and godly teaching?**

The person who rejects healthy words and godly teaching is puffed up and understands nothing.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 6:3–1TI 6:4

## 1 Timothy 6:6 (id: 165836)

**What does Paul say is great gain?**

Paul says that godliness with contentment is great gain.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 6:6

## 1 Timothy 6:7 (id: 165837)

**What did we bring into this world, and what can we take with us when we leave?**

We have brought nothing into the world and cannot take anything out.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 6:7

## 1 Timothy 6:8 (id: 165838)

**With what should we be content in this world?**

We should be satisfied that we have food and clothing.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 6:8

## 1 Timothy 6:9 (id: 165839)

**Into what do those who desire to become wealthy fall?**

Those who desire to become wealthy fall into temptation and a trap.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 6:9

## 1 Timothy 6:10 (id: 165840)

**What is a root of all kinds of evil?**

The love of money is a root of all kinds of evil.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 6:10

## 1 Timothy 6:10 (#2) (id: 165841)

**What has happened to some who have loved money?**

Some who have loved money have been led away from the faith.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 6:10

## 1 Timothy 6:12 (id: 165842)

**What fight does Paul say Timothy must fight?**

Paul says Timothy must fight the good fight of the faith.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 6:12

## 1 Timothy 6:13–16 (id: 165843)

**Where does God dwell?**

God dwells in unapproachable light.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 6:13–1TI 6:16

## 1 Timothy 6:17 (id: 165844)

**Why should the rich hope in God and not in uncertain riches?**

The rich should hope in God because he provides us with everything that we enjoy.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 6:17

## 1 Timothy 6:18–19 (id: 165845)

**Those who are rich in good works do what for themselves?**

Those who are rich in good works store up for themselves a good foundation and grasp genuine life.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 6:18–1TI 6:19

## 1 Timothy 6:20 (id: 165846)

**Finally, what does Paul tell Timothy to do with the things given to him?**

Paul tells Timothy to guard what has been entrusted to him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1TI 6:20

