# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Questions_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## 2 Timothy 1:1 (id: 167106)

**How did Paul become an apostle of Christ?**

Paul became an apostle of Christ through the will of God.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 1:1

## 2 Timothy 1:2 (id: 167107)

**What does Paul say is his relationship with Timothy?**

Paul calls Timothy his “beloved child.”

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 1:2

## 2 Timothy 1:4 (id: 167108)

**When Paul remembers Timothy in his prayers, what does Paul long to do?**

Paul longs to see Timothy.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 1:4

## 2 Timothy 1:5 (id: 167109)

**In Timothy’s family, who else had genuine faith before Timothy did?**

Timothy’s grandmother and mother both had genuine faith.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 1:5

## 2 Timothy 1:7 (id: 167110)

**What kind of spirit did God give Timothy?**

God gave Timothy a spirit of power and love and discipline.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 1:7

## 2 Timothy 1:8 (id: 167111)

**What does Paul tell Timothy not to do?**

Paul tells Timothy not to be ashamed of the testimony about the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 1:8

## 2 Timothy 1:8 (#2) (id: 167112)

**What does Paul tell Timothy to do?**

Paul tells Timothy to suffer for the gospel together with Paul.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 1:8

## 2 Timothy 1:9 (id: 167113)

**When was God’s plan and grace given to us?**

God’s plan and grace was given to us before eternal times.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 1:9

## 2 Timothy 1:10 (id: 167114)

**How did God reveal his plan of salvation?**

God’s plan of salvation was revealed through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 1:10

## 2 Timothy 1:10 (#2) (id: 167115)

**When Jesus appeared, what did he do regarding death, life, and immortality?**

Jesus put an end to death, and brought to light life and immortality through the gospel.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 1:10

## 2 Timothy 1:12 (id: 167116)

**What is Paul confident that God is able to do for him which makes Paul not ashamed of the gospel?**

Paul is persuaded that God is able to keep the deposit that Paul has entrusted to God until that day.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 1:12

## 2 Timothy 1:14 (id: 167117)

**What is Timothy to do with the good deposit God has committed to him?**

Timothy is to guard through the Holy Spirit the good deposit God has committed to him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 1:14

## 2 Timothy 1:15 (id: 167118)

**What did all of Paul’s Asian companions do to him?**

All those in Asia turned away from Paul.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 1:15

## 2 Timothy 1:16 (id: 167119)

**Why does Paul ask the Lord to grant mercy to the household of Onesiphorus?**

Paul asks the Lord to grant mercy to the household of Onesiphorus because Onesiphorus refreshed Paul and was not ashamed of Paul’s chain.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 1:16

## 2 Timothy 1:17 (id: 167120)

**What did Onesiphorus do for Paul when Paul was in Rome?**

Onesiphorus diligently sought Paul in Rome and found him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 1:17

## 2 Timothy 1:18 (id: 167121)

**What does Paul ask the Lord to grant to Onesiphorus?**

Paul asks the Lord to grant mercy to Onesiphorus.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 1:18

## 2 Timothy 2:1 (id: 167122)

**What is able to strengthen Timothy?**

The grace that is in Christ Jesus can strengthen Timothy.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 2:1

## 2 Timothy 2:2 (id: 167123)

**To whom is Timothy to entrust the message Paul has taught him?**

Timothy is to entrust the message to faithful men who will be able to teach others also.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 2:2

## 2 Timothy 2:4 (id: 167124)

**As an illustration for Timothy, Paul says a good soldier does not entangle himself in what?**

A good soldier does not entangle himself in the affairs of life.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 2:4

## 2 Timothy 2:9 (id: 167125)

**As he writes to Timothy, in what condition is Paul suffering for his preaching the word of God?**

Paul is suffering by being chained like a criminal.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 2:9

## 2 Timothy 2:9 (#2) (id: 167126)

**What does Paul say is not bound?**

The word of God is not bound.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 2:9

## 2 Timothy 2:10 (id: 167127)

**Why does Paul endure all these things?**

Paul endures all things for those chosen by God, that they may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 2:10

## 2 Timothy 2:12 (id: 167128)

**What is Christ’s promise to those who endure?**

Those who endure will reign with Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 2:12

## 2 Timothy 2:12 (#2) (id: 167129)

**What is Christ’s warning to those who deny him?**

Those who deny Christ, Christ will deny.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 2:12

## 2 Timothy 2:14 (id: 167130)

**About what should Timothy warn the people not to quarrel?**

Timothy should warn the people not to quarrel about words, which is useful for nothing.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 2:14

## 2 Timothy 2:18 (id: 167131)

**What false doctrine were the two men who wandered from the truth saying?**

They were saying that the resurrection had already happened.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 2:18

## 2 Timothy 2:21 (id: 167132)

**How are the believers to prepare themselves for every good work?**

The believers are to clean themselves from dishonorable use on order to be ready for every good work.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 2:21

## 2 Timothy 2:22 (id: 167133)

**From what is Timothy to flee?**

Timothy is to flee youthful lusts.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 2:22

## 2 Timothy 2:24 (id: 167134)

**What does Paul say that a servant of the Lord must be?**

A servant of the Lord must be patient, kind to all, and able to teach.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 2:24

## 2 Timothy 2:25 (id: 167135)

**How must a servant of the Lord treat those who oppose him?**

A servant of the Lord must educate in meekness those who oppose him.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 2:25

## 2 Timothy 2:26 (id: 167136)

**What has the devil done with unbelievers?**

The devil has trapped and captured the unbelievers for his will.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 2:26

## 2 Timothy 3:1 (id: 167137)

**What does Paul say will come in the last days?**

Paul says difficult times will come in the last days.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 3:1

## 2 Timothy 3:2 (id: 167138)

**In the last days, what will people love instead of God?**

In the last days, people will love themselves and love money instead of God.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 3:2

## 2 Timothy 3:4 (id: 167139)

**In the last days, what other thing will people love instead of God?**

In the last days, people will love pleasure instead of God.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 3:4

## 2 Timothy 3:5 (id: 167140)

**What does Paul tell Timothy to do with those who have only a form of godliness?**

Paul tells Timothy to turn away from those who have only a form of godliness.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 3:5

## 2 Timothy 3:6 (id: 167141)

**What do some of these ungodly men do?**

Some of these ungodly men enter households and captivate foolish women who are led away by various desires.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 3:6

## 2 Timothy 3:8 (id: 167142)

**How are these ungodly men like Jannes and Jambres in the Old Testament?**

These ungodly men oppose the truth just as Jannes and Jambres did to Moses.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 3:8

## 2 Timothy 3:10 (id: 167143)

**Instead of the false teachers, who has Timothy followed?**

Timothy has followed Paul.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 3:10

## 2 Timothy 3:11 (id: 167144)

**From what did the Lord rescue Paul?**

The Lord rescued Paul from all his persecutions and sufferings.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 3:11

## 2 Timothy 3:12 (id: 167145)

**What does Paul say will happen to all those who want to live in a godly manner?**

Paul says that all those who want to live in a godly manner will be persecuted.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 3:12

## 2 Timothy 3:13 (id: 167146)

**Who will become worse in the last days?**

Evil people and imposters will become worse in the last days.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 3:13

## 2 Timothy 3:15 (id: 167147)

**From what time in Timothy’s life had he known the sacred writings?**

Timothy knew the sacred writings from childhood.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 3:15

## 2 Timothy 3:16 (id: 167148)

**How did all the Scripture come into being?**

All Scripture is God\-breathed.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 3:16

## 2 Timothy 3:16 (#2) (id: 167149)

**For what is all Scripture profitable?**

All Scripture is profitable for teaching, reproof, correction, and training in righteousness.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 3:16

## 2 Timothy 3:17 (id: 167150)

**What is the purpose of training a person in the Scriptures?**

A person is trained in the Scriptures so that he is proficient, equipped for every good work.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 3:17

## 2 Timothy 4:1 (id: 167151)

**Who is Jesus Christ going to judge?**

Jesus Christ will judge the living and the dead.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 4:1

## 2 Timothy 4:2 (id: 167152)

**What did Paul solemnly command Timothy to do?**

Paul solemnly commanded Timothy to preach the Word.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 4:2

## 2 Timothy 4:3 (id: 167153)

**Paul warned that the time will come when people will do what regarding doctrine?**

People will not endure sound teaching, but will listen to teachings that agree with their own desires.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 4:3

## 2 Timothy 4:5 (id: 167154)

**What work and ministry had Timothy been given to do?**

Timothy had been given the work and ministry of an evangelist.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 4:5

## 2 Timothy 4:6 (id: 167155)

**What time in his life did Paul say had now come?**

Paul said that his time of departure had come.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 4:6

## 2 Timothy 4:8 (id: 167156)

**What reward did Paul say all those who love Christ’s appearing will receive?**

Paul said that all those who love Christ’s appearing will receive the crown of righteousness.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 4:8

## 2 Timothy 4:10 (id: 167157)

**Why did Paul’s companion Demas leave him?**

Demas left Paul because he loved this present age.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 4:10

## 2 Timothy 4:11 (id: 167158)

**Who was the only companion of Paul to still be with him?**

Only Luke was still with Paul.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 4:11

## 2 Timothy 4:14 (id: 167159)

**According to what did Paul said that the Lord would repay Alexander?**

Paul said that the Lord will repay Alexander according to his deeds.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 4:14

## 2 Timothy 4:16 (id: 167160)

**Which people appeared with Paul at his first defense?**

At Paul’s first defense, no one appeared with Paul.

* **Associated Passages:** 2TI 4:16

