# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Questions_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Titus 1:1 (id: 179256)

**What was Paul’s purpose in his service to God?**

His purpose was to establish the faith of God’s chosen people and to establish the knowledge of the truth.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 1:1

## Titus 1:2 (id: 179257)

**When did God promise everlasting life to his chosen people?**

He promised it to them before all the ages of time.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 1:2

## Titus 1:2 (#2) (id: 179258)

**Does God lie?**

No.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 1:2

## Titus 1:3 (id: 179259)

**To whom did God entrust his proclamation at the right time?**

God entrusted it to the apostle Paul.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 1:3

## Titus 1:4 (id: 179260)

**What was the relationship between Titus and Paul?**

Titus was like a true son to Paul because of their common faith.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 1:4

## Titus 1:6 (id: 179261)

**What must an elder’s wife and children be like?**

He must be the husband of one wife and have faithful children who are not accused of reckless behavior or rebellion.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 1:6

## Titus 1:7 (id: 179262)

**What are some of the character traits that an elder must avoid in order to be blameless?**

He must not be arrogant or easily angered or addicted to wine or a brawler or greedy.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 1:7

## Titus 1:7 (#2) (id: 179263)

**What position and responsibility does an overseer have in God’s household?**

He is like God’s household manager.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 1:7

## Titus 1:8 (id: 179264)

**What good qualities should an elder have?**

An elder should be hospitable, a friend of what is good, sensible, righteous, holy, and self\-controlled.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 1:8

## Titus 1:9 (id: 179265)

**What must an elder’s attitude be toward the message that he was taught?**

He must hold tightly to it, and thus, be able to encourage and rebuke others.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 1:9

## Titus 1:11 (id: 179266)

**What were the false teachers doing by their teaching?**

They were upsetting whole households.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 1:11

## Titus 1:11 (#2) (id: 179267)

**What did the false teachers want?**

They wanted shameful profit.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 1:11

## Titus 1:13 (id: 179268)

**How should an elder treat these false teachers who damage the church?**

He must rebuke them severely so they might be sound in the faith.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 1:13

## Titus 1:14 (id: 179269)

**To what did Paul say they should not pay attention?**

They should not pay attention to Jewish myths and to commandments of men.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 1:14

## Titus 1:15 (id: 179270)

**In an unbelieving man, what is corrupted?**

Both his mind and conscience are corrupted.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 1:15

## Titus 1:16 (id: 179271)

**Although the corrupted man professes to know God, how does he deny him?**

He denies God through his actions.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 1:16

## Titus 2:2 (id: 179272)

**What are some characteristics that older men in the church should have?**

They should be temperate, dignified, sensible, and sound in faith, in love, and in perseverance.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 2:2

## Titus 2:3 (id: 179273)

**What are some characteristics that older women in the church should have?**

They should be reverent, sober, not be slanderers, be teachers of what is good.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 2:3

## Titus 2:4 (id: 179274)

**What should the older women teach the younger women to do?**

They should teach them to love and obey their husbands, and to love their children.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 2:4

## Titus 2:7 (id: 179275)

**How should Titus present himself as an example of good works?**

In his teaching, he should be uncorrupted, act with dignity, and deliver a sound message that is above criticism.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 2:7

## Titus 2:8 (id: 179276)

**What will happen to those who oppose Titus if he is a good example?**

Those who oppose him will be ashamed because they have nothing bad to say about him.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 2:8

## Titus 2:9 (id: 179277)

**How are slaves who are believers to behave?**

They are to obey their masters, be pleasing, and should not argue.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 2:9

## Titus 2:10 (id: 179278)

**When Christian slaves behave as Paul has instructed, what effect will that have on others?**

It will bring credit to the teaching about God our Savior.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 2:10

## Titus 2:11 (id: 179279)

**Who can the grace of God save?**

The grace of God can save everyone.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 2:11

## Titus 2:12 (id: 179280)

**What does the grace of God train us to reject?**

The grace of God trains us to reject godlessness and worldly passions.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 2:12

## Titus 2:13 (id: 179281)

**What future event do believers look forward to receiving?**

Believers look forward to receiving the blessed hope: the appearance of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 2:13

## Titus 2:14 (id: 179282)

**Why did Jesus give himself for us?**

He gave himself in order to redeem us from lawlessness and to purify for himself a people who are zealous to do good works.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 2:14

## Titus 3:1 (id: 179283)

**What should the believer’s attitude be toward rulers and authorities?**

The believer should submit to them and obey them, and be ready for every good work.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 3:1

## Titus 3:3 (id: 179284)

**What leads unbelievers astray and enslaves them?**

Their various passions and pleasures lead them astray and enslave them.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 3:3

## Titus 3:5 (id: 179285)

**Through what means did God save us?**

He saved us through the washing of new birth and renewal by the Holy Spirit.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 3:5

## Titus 3:5 (#2) (id: 179286)

**Are we saved because of good works which we have done or because of God’s mercy?**

We are saved only because of God’s mercy.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 3:5

## Titus 3:7 (id: 179287)

**After he justifies us, what does God make us to become?**

God makes us become his heirs.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 3:7

## Titus 3:8 (id: 179288)

**What should believers be careful to do?**

Believers should be careful to do the good works.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 3:8

## Titus 3:9 (id: 179289)

**What should believers avoid?**

Believers should avoid foolish debates, genealogies, strife, and conflict about religious law.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 3:9

## Titus 3:10 (id: 179290)

**Who should we reject after one or two warnings?**

We should reject a divisive person.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 3:10

## Titus 3:14 (id: 179291)

**What must believers engage themselves in so that they will be fruitful?**

Believers must learn to engage themselves in doing good works that provide for essential needs.

* **Associated Passages:** TIT 3:14

