# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Philemon 1:1 (id: 176426)

**Where is Paul as he writes this letter?**

Paul is in prison as he writes this letter.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:1

## Philemon 1:1 (#2) (id: 176427)

**To whom is this letter written?**

This letter is written to Philemon, Paul’s dear friend and fellow\-worker.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:1

## Philemon 1:2 (id: 176428)

**In what kind of place is the church meeting?**

The church is meeting in a house.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:2

## Philemon 1:5 (id: 176429)

**Of what good characteristics has Paul heard about Philemon?**

Paul has heard about Philemon’s love, faith in the Lord, and faithfulness toward all the saints.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:5

## Philemon 1:7 (id: 176430)

**According to Paul, what has Philemon done for the saints?**

Philemon has refreshed the hearts of the saints.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:7

## Philemon 1:9 (id: 176431)

**Why is Paul asking Philemon for something instead of commanding him?**

Paul is asking Philemon because of love.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:9

## Philemon 1:10 (id: 176432)

**What did Paul call Onesimus?**

Paul called Onesimus his child.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:10

## Philemon 1:10 (#2) (id: 176433)

**Where was Paul when he became Onesimus’ father?**

Paul was in chains, in prison.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:10

## Philemon 1:12 (id: 176434)

**What has Paul done with Onesimus?**

Paul has sent Onesimus back to Philemon.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:12

## Philemon 1:13 (id: 176435)

**Where is Paul as he writes this letter?**

Paul is in prison as he writes this letter.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:13

## Philemon 1:13 (#2) (id: 176436)

**What would Paul like Onesimus to be able to do?**

Paul would like Onesimus to be able to help him.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:13

## Philemon 1:14 (id: 176437)

**Why did Paul not want to act without the consent of Philemon?**

Paul wanted Philemon’s good deed to be his own choice and not forced upon him by Paul's action.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:14

## Philemon 1:15 (id: 176438)

**Why did Paul say Onesimus may have been separated from Philemon?**

Paul said Onesimus may have been separated from Philemon so that Philemon could have him back forever, meaning as an eternal brother in Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:15

## Philemon 1:16–17 (id: 176439)

**How does Paul now want Philemon to consider Onesimus?**

Paul wants Philemon to consider Onesimus as a beloved brother.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:16–PHM 1:17

## Philemon 1:18 (id: 176440)

**What does Paul want Philemon to do about anything that Onesimus owes Philemon?**

Paul wants Philemon to charge anything owed by Onesimus to Paul’s account.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:18

## Philemon 1:19 (id: 176441)

**What does Philemon owe Paul?**

Philemon owes Paul his very life.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:19

## Philemon 1:22 (id: 176442)

**What does Paul want Philemon to do for him?**

Paul wants Philemon to prepare a guest room for him.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:22

## Philemon 1:22 (#2) (id: 176443)

**Why does Paul want Philemon to do this?**

Paul hopes that God will send him back to Philemon.

* **Associated Passages:** PHM 1:22

