# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## James 1:1 (id: 171737)

**To whom did James write this letter?**

James wrote this letter to the twelve tribes that were scattered.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:1

## James 1:2 (id: 171738)

**When experiencing troubles, what attitude does James say his readers should have?**

James says to consider it all joy when experiencing troubles.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:2

## James 1:3 (id: 171739)

**What does the testing of our faith produce?**

The testing of our faith produces endurance.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:3

## James 1:5 (id: 171740)

**For what should we ask from God if we need it?**

We should ask God for wisdom if we need it.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:5

## James 1:6 (id: 171741)

**What is a doubter like?**

Someone who doubts is like a wave in the sea that is tossed around by the wind.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:6

## James 1:7–8 (id: 171742)

**What should someone who asks with doubting expect to receive?**

Someone who asks with doubting should not expect to receive anything from the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:7–JAS 1:8

## James 1:10 (id: 171743)

**Why should the rich be humble?**

The rich should be humble because he will pass away just like the flowers.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:10

## James 1:11 (id: 171744)

**To what can the rich be compared?**

The rich can be compared to the flower of the grass that dries up, falls off, and perishes.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:11

## James 1:12 (id: 171745)

**Those who pass the test of faith will receive what?**

Those who pass the test of faith will receive the crown of life.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:12

## James 1:14 (id: 171746)

**What causes a person to be tempted by evil?**

A person’s own evil desires cause him to be tempted by evil.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:14

## James 1:15 (id: 171747)

**What is the result of full\-grown sin?**

The result of full\-grown sin is death.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:15

## James 1:17 (id: 171748)

**What comes down from the Father of lights?**

Every good gift and every perfect gift comes down from the Father of lights.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:17

## James 1:18 (id: 171749)

**By what means did God choose to give us life?**

God chose to give us life by the word of truth.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:18

## James 1:19 (id: 171750)

**What does James tell us to do about our hearing, speaking, and emotions?**

James tells us to be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:19

## James 1:22 (id: 171751)

**How does James say that we can deceive ourselves?**

James says that we can deceive ourselves by hearing the word and not doing it.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:22

## James 1:26 (id: 171752)

**What must be controlled in order for us to be truly religious?**

The tongue must be controlled in order for us to be truly religious.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:26

## James 1:27 (id: 171753)

**What is pure and undefiled religion before God?**

Pure and undefiled religion before God is to visit the fatherless and widows, and to protect ourselves from the world’s corruption.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 1:27

## James 2:1 (id: 171754)

**What attitude should believers not have?**

They should not have an attitude of favoritism.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:1

## James 2:3 (id: 171755)

**What are believers telling a rich man who enters their meeting?**

They are telling him to come up front into the best location.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:3

## James 2:3 (#2) (id: 171756)

**What are believers telling a poor man who enters their meeting?**

They are telling him to stand far away or in a poor location.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:3

## James 2:4 (id: 171757)

**What have the believers become because of their favoritism?**

They have become judges of evil thoughts.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:4

## James 2:5 (id: 171758)

**What does James say about God’s choice of the poor?**

James says that God chose the poor to be rich in faith and to inherit the kingdom.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:5

## James 2:6–7 (id: 171759)

**What does James say the rich have been doing?**

James says the rich have been oppressing the brothers and blaspheming God’s name.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:6–JAS 2:7

## James 2:8 (id: 171760)

**What is the royal law of the scriptures?**

The royal law is, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself”.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:8

## James 2:10 (id: 171761)

**Whoever breaks one point of God’s law is guilty of what?**

Whoever breaks one point of God’s law is guilty of breaking all the law.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:10

## James 2:13 (id: 171762)

**What comes to those who have not shown mercy?**

Judgment without mercy comes to those who have not shown mercy.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:13

## James 2:14 (id: 171763)

**What does James say about those who claim to have faith, but do not help those in need?**

James says that those who claim to have faith but do not help those in need have a faith that cannot save them.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:14

## James 2:16 (id: 171764)

**Does it help a poor person if we tell them to be warmed and filled, but do not give them anything?**

No, it does not help a poor person if we don't give them anything to warm or feed them.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:16

## James 2:17 (id: 171765)

**What is faith by itself, if it has no works?**

Faith by itself, if it has no works, is dead.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:17

## James 2:18 (id: 171766)

**How does James say we must show our faith?**

James says we must show our faith by our works.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:18

## James 2:19 (id: 171767)

**What do demons and those who claim to have faith both believe?**

Those who claim to have faith and demons both believe there is one God.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:19

## James 2:21 (id: 171768)

**How did Abraham demonstrate his faith by his works?**

Abraham demonstrated his faith by his works when he offered up Isaac upon the altar.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:21

## James 2:22 (id: 171769)

**How was the faith of Abraham perfected?**

Abraham's faith was perfected by his works.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:22

## James 2:23 (id: 171770)

**What scripture was fulfilled with Abraham’s faith and works?**

The scripture was fulfilled which says, “Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness”.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:23

## James 2:25 (id: 171771)

**How did Rahab demonstrate her faith by her works?**

Rahab demonstrated her faith by her works when she welcomed the messengers and sent them away by another road.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:25

## James 2:26 (id: 171772)

**What is a body apart from the spirit?**

A body apart from the spirit is dead.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 2:26

## James 3:1 (id: 171773)

**Why does James say that not many should become teachers?**

Not many should become teachers because they will receive greater judgment.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 3:1

## James 3:2 (id: 171774)

**Who stumbles, and in how many ways?**

We all stumble in many ways.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 3:2

## James 3:2 (#2) (id: 171775)

**What kind of person is able to control his whole body?**

A person who does not stumble in his words is also able to control his whole body.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 3:2

## James 3:3 (id: 171776)

**What little thing is able to steer a large ship where the pilot wants it to go?**

A small rudder is able to steer a large ship.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 3:3

## James 3:4 (id: 171777)

**What small thing is able to start a large fire in a forest?**

A small fire is able to start a large fire in a forest.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 3:4

## James 3:6 (id: 171778)

**What is the sinful tongue able to do to the whole body?**

The sinful tongue is able to defile the whole body.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 3:6

## James 3:8 (id: 171779)

**What has no one among man been able to tame?**

No one among man has been able to tame the tongue.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 3:8

## James 3:9 (id: 171780)

**What two ways to people treat God and men with their tongues?**

With a single tongue, they bless God and curse men.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 3:9

## James 3:11 (id: 171781)

**What two things can a spring not provide?**

One spring cannot provide both sweet and bitter water.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 3:11

## James 3:13 (id: 171782)

**How does a person demonstrate wisdom and understanding?**

A person demonstrates wisdom and understanding by his works done in humility.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 3:13

## James 3:15 (id: 171783)

**Where kind of wisdom causes a person to be jealous and ambitious, and to lie?**

Wisdom that is earthly, soulish, and demonic causes a person to be jealous and ambitious, and to lie.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 3:15

## James 3:16 (id: 171784)

**What results from jealousy and ambition?**

Jealousy and ambition causes unsettledness and every wicked deed.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 3:16

## James 3:17 (id: 171785)

**What attitudes reflect a wisdom from above?**

A person that is peace\-loving, gentle, warm\-hearted, full of mercy and good fruit, without favoritism, and sincere has wisdom from above.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 3:17

## James 4:1 (id: 171786)

**What does James say is the source of quarreling and disputing among the believers?**

The source is the evil desires that war among them.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 4:1

## James 4:3 (id: 171787)

**Why do the believers not receive their requests to God?**

They do not receive because they ask for bad things to be spent on their evil desires.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 4:3

## James 4:4 (id: 171788)

**If a person decides to be a friend of the world, what is that person’s relationship with God?**

A person who decides to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 4:4

## James 4:6 (id: 171789)

**Who does God resist, and to whom does he give grace?**

God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 4:6

## James 4:7 (id: 171790)

**What will the devil do when a believer subjects himself to God and resists the devil?**

The devil will flee.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 4:7

## James 4:8 (id: 171791)

**What will God do for those who draw near to him?**

God will draw near to those who draw near to him.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 4:8

## James 4:11 (id: 171792)

**What does James tell the believers not to do?**

James tells the believers not to speak against one another.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 4:11

## James 4:15 (id: 171793)

**What does James tell the believers to say about what will happen in the future?**

James tells the believers to say that if the Lord allows, we will live and do this or that.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 4:15

## James 4:16 (id: 171794)

**What does James say about those who boast about their plans?**

James says that those who boast about their plans are doing evil.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 4:16

## James 4:17 (id: 171795)

**What is it if someone knows to do good, but does not do it?**

It is sin if someone knows to do good, but does not do it.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 4:17

## James 5:3 (id: 171796)

**What have the rich, about whom James is talking, done in the last days which will testify against them?**

The rich have hoarded their treasure.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 5:3

## James 5:4 (id: 171797)

**How have these rich treated their workers?**

These rich have not paid their workers.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 5:4

## James 5:6 (id: 171798)

**How have these rich treated the righteous man?**

These rich have condemned and killed the righteous man.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 5:6

## James 5:7 (id: 171799)

**What does James say the believer’s attitude should be toward the coming of the Lord?**

The believers should wait patiently for the coming of the Lord.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 5:7

## James 5:8 (id: 171800)

**Why should believers strengthen their hearts as they wait patiently for the coming of the Lord?**

They should strengthen their hearts because the coming of the Lord is near.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 5:8

## James 5:10 (id: 171801)

**What should the suffering and the patience of the Old Testament prophets become for us?**

The suffering and the patience of the Old Testament prophets should become an example for us.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 5:10

## James 5:11 (id: 171802)

**What positive character trait did Job demonstrate?**

Job demonstrated endurance.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 5:11

## James 5:12 (id: 171803)

**What does James say about the reliability of a believer’s “Yes” and “No?”**

A believer’s “Yes” must mean “Yes” and his “No” must mean “No”.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 5:12

## James 5:14 (id: 171804)

**What should those who are sick do?**

The sick should call for the elders so they can pray over him and anoint him with oil.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 5:14

## James 5:16 (id: 171805)

**What two things does James say believers should do with each other in order to be healed?**

Believers should confess to one another and pray for one another.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 5:16

## James 5:17 (id: 171806)

**What happened when Elijah prayed that it would not rain?**

It did not rain on the land for three years and six months.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 5:17

## James 5:18 (id: 171807)

**What happened when Elijah prayed again, this time for rain?**

When he prayed again, the heaven gave rain and the earth produced fruit.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 5:18

## James 5:20 (id: 171808)

**What does someone accomplish who leads a sinner out of the error of his way?**

The person who leads a sinner out of the error of his way saves a soul from death and covers a multitude of sins.

* **Associated Passages:** JAS 5:20

