# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## 1 Peter 1:1 (id: 165253)

**Of whom was Peter an apostle?**

Peter was an apostle of Jesus Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:1

## 1 Peter 1:1 (#2) (id: 165254)

**To whom did Peter write?**

Peter wrote to the foreigners of the dispersion, the chosen ones, throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:1

## 1 Peter 1:3 (id: 165255)

**Whom did Peter want to be blessed?**

Peter wanted the God and Father of their Lord Jesus Christ to be blessed.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:3

## 1 Peter 1:3 (#2) (id: 165256)

**How did God give them a new birth?**

In his great mercy, God gave them a new birth through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:3

## 1 Peter 1:4 (id: 165257)

**Why would the inheritance not perish, become stained, or fade away?**

The inheritance would not perish, become stained, or fade away because the inheritance was reserved in heaven for them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:4

## 1 Peter 1:5 (id: 165258)

**By what means were they protected in God’s power?**

They were protected through faith for the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last times.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:5

## 1 Peter 1:7 (id: 165259)

**Why was it necessary for them to feel sorrow in many different trials?**

It was necessary so that their faith would be tested, and so that their faith would be found to result in praise, glory, and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:7

## 1 Peter 1:7 (#2) (id: 165260)

**What is more precious than gold which perishes?**

Faith is more precious than gold.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:7

## 1 Peter 1:8 (id: 165261)

**Although the believers had not seen Jesus, what did they do?**

They loved him and believed in him and were very glad with unspeakable joy that was full of glory.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:8

## 1 Peter 1:9 (id: 165262)

**What did the ones who believed in him receive as the result of their faith?**

They received the salvation of their souls.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:9

## 1 Peter 1:10 (id: 165263)

**About what did the prophets search and inquire carefully?**

The prophets searched about the salvation the believers were receiving, about the grace that was to be theirs.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:10

## 1 Peter 1:11 (id: 165264)

**About what was the Spirit of Christ telling the prophets in advance?**

He was telling them about the sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:11

## 1 Peter 1:12 (id: 165265)

**Whom were the prophets serving by their searches and inquiries?**

They were serving the believers.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:12

## 1 Peter 1:12 (#2) (id: 165266)

**Who desired the results of the prophets’ searches and inquiries to be revealed?**

Even the angels desired the results to be revealed.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:12

## 1 Peter 1:13–14 (id: 165267)

**What did Peter command the believers to do as obedient children?**

He commanded them to prepare their minds to obey God, be sober in their thinking, and have complete confidence in the grace that would be brought them, and not to conform themselves to their former desires.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:13–1PE 1:14

## 1 Peter 1:15–16 (id: 165268)

**Why did Peter say the believers should be holy?**

Because the one who called them is holy.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:15–1PE 1:16

## 1 Peter 1:17 (id: 165269)

**Why should the believers spend the time of their journey in fear?**

Because they called as “Father” the one who judges impartially according to each person’s work.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:17

## 1 Peter 1:18 (id: 165270)

**From whom had the foreigners, the chosen ones, learned futile behavior?**

They had learned futile behavior from their fathers.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:18

## 1 Peter 1:18–19 (id: 165271)

**With what were the believers redeemed?**

They were not redeemed with silver or gold, but with the honored blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:18–1PE 1:19

## 1 Peter 1:20 (id: 165272)

**When was Christ foreknown, and when was he revealed?**

He was foreknown before the foundation of the world; he was revealed to the foreigners, the chosen ones, in what was then the last times.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:20

## 1 Peter 1:22 (id: 165273)

**How did the believers make their souls pure?**

They made their souls pure by obedience to the truth for brotherly love.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:22

## 1 Peter 1:23 (id: 165274)

**How were the believers born again?**

They were born again from imperishable seed, through the living and remaining word of God, not from perishable seed.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:23

## 1 Peter 1:24 (id: 165275)

**What is all flesh like, and what is its glory like?**

Flesh is like grass; its glory is like the flower of grass.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:24

## 1 Peter 1:25 (id: 165276)

**What happens to the word of the Lord?**

The word of the Lord remains forever.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:25

## 1 Peter 2:1 (id: 165277)

**What were the believers told to put aside?**

They were told to put aside all evil deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and slander.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 2:1

## 1 Peter 2:2 (id: 165278)

**Why were the believers to long for pure spiritual milk?**

They were to long for pure spiritual milk that they might grow in salvation.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 2:2

## 1 Peter 2:4–5 (id: 165279)

**Who was the living stone who was rejected by people and chosen by God?**

Jesus Christ was the living stone.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 2:4–1PE 2:5

## 1 Peter 2:5 (id: 165280)

**Why were the believers also like living stones?**

They were like living stones because they were being built up to be a spiritual house.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 2:5

## 1 Peter 2:7–8 (id: 165281)

**Why did the builders stumble, disobeying the word?**

The builders stumbled because they were appointed to do that.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 2:7–1PE 2:8

## 1 Peter 2:9–10 (id: 165282)

**Why were the believers a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, and a people for God’s possession?**

They were chosen so that they might announce the wonderful actions of God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 2:9–1PE 2:10

## 1 Peter 2:11–12 (id: 165283)

**Why did Peter call the beloved to abstain from sinful desires?**

He called them to abstain so that those who might speak of them as having done evil would see their good behavior and praise God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 2:11–1PE 2:12

## 1 Peter 2:13–15 (id: 165284)

**Why were the believers to obey every human authority?**

They were to obey every human authority because God wanted to use their obedience to silence the ignorant talk of foolish people.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 2:13–1PE 2:15

## 1 Peter 2:16 (id: 165285)

**Instead of using their freedom as a covering for wickedness, what were the foreigners, the chosen ones, to do?**

They were to use their freedom to be servants of God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 2:16

## 1 Peter 2:18–20 (id: 165286)

**Why were servants supposed to be subject to their masters, even the malicious ones?**

Servants were supposed to be subject even to malicious masters because doing good and then suffering by being punished for it is praiseworthy with God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 2:18–1PE 2:20

## 1 Peter 2:21–23 (id: 165287)

**Why were the servants called to suffer for doing good?**

Because Christ suffered for them, leaving an example for them, and gave himself to the one who judges justly.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 2:21–1PE 2:23

## 1 Peter 2:24 (id: 165288)

**Why did Christ carry Peter, believers, and the servants’ sins in his body to the tree?**

He carried their sins so that they might have no more part in sin, but instead live for righteousness, and because they were healed by his bruises.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 2:24

## 1 Peter 2:25 (id: 165289)

**After they all had been wandering away like lost sheep, to whom did they return?**

They all returned to the shepherd and guardian of their souls.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 2:25

## 1 Peter 3:1 (id: 165290)

**Why should wives submit to their husbands?**

Wives should submit so that those husbands who are disobedient might be won without a word.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 3:1

## 1 Peter 3:3–4 (id: 165291)

**How should wives adorn themselves?**

Wives should adorn themselves in the inner person of the heart, in the lasting beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 3:3–1PE 3:4

## 1 Peter 3:5–6 (id: 165292)

**Which holy woman did Peter mention as an example of a wife who had confidence in God and submitted to her husband?**

Peter mentioned Sarah as an example.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 3:5–1PE 3:6

## 1 Peter 3:7 (id: 165293)

**Why should husbands live with their wives according to knowledge?**

Husbands should live with their wives according to knowledge so that their prayers are not hindered.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 3:7

## 1 Peter 3:8–9 (id: 165294)

**Why did Peter instruct all of the foreigners, the chosen ones, to be likeminded and to continue to bless?**

Because they were all called to do so, that they might inherit a blessing.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 3:8–1PE 3:9

## 1 Peter 3:10–12 (id: 165295)

**Why should the one who wants to love life stop his tongue from evil and turn away from what is bad and do what is good?**

Because the eyes of the Lord see the righteous.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 3:10–1PE 3:12

## 1 Peter 3:14 (id: 165296)

**Who were the ones who were blessed?**

Those who suffered because of righteousness were blessed.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 3:14

## 1 Peter 3:15 (id: 165297)

**What were the believers told to do to maintain their confidence in God?**

They were told to set apart the Lord Christ as precious in their hearts.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 3:15

## 1 Peter 3:15–16 (id: 165298)

**How were the believers always to answer everyone who asked about their confidence in God?**

They were to be ready to answer always with meekness and respect.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 3:15–1PE 3:16

## 1 Peter 3:18 (id: 165299)

**Why did Christ suffer once for sins?**

Christ suffered once so that he would bring Peter and the believers to God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 3:18

## 1 Peter 3:19–20 (id: 165300)

**Why were the spirits to whom Christ preached in the spirit now in prison?**

The spirits who are now in prison were disobedient when the patience of God was waiting in the days of Noah.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 3:19–1PE 3:20

## 1 Peter 3:21 (id: 165301)

**What kind of baptism saves the believer?**

The baptism that saves the believer is not the washing with water, but the appeal of a good conscience to God through the resurrection of Jesus Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 3:21

## 1 Peter 3:22 (id: 165302)

**As Jesus is at the right hand of God in heaven, what must angels, authorities, and powers do?**

They must all submit to him.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 3:22

## 1 Peter 4:1 (id: 165303)

**With what did Peter command the believers to arm themselves?**

He commanded them to arm themselves with the same intention that Christ had when he suffered in the flesh.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 4:1

## 1 Peter 4:3–4 (id: 165304)

**Why did the Gentiles speak evil about the believers?**

They spoke evil about the foreigners, the chosen ones, because they did not participate in sensuality, passion, drunkenness, carousing, wild parties, and in wicked idolatries like the Gentiles.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 4:3–1PE 4:4

## 1 Peter 4:5 (id: 165305)

**Who is God ready to judge?**

God is ready to judge both the living and the dead.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 4:5

## 1 Peter 4:7 (id: 165306)

**Why were the believers to be of sound mind and have fervent love for one another?**

They were to do those things because the end of all things was coming, and for the sake of their prayers.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 4:7

## 1 Peter 4:10–11 (id: 165307)

**Why were each of the believers to use the gifts they had received to serve one another?**

They were to use their gifts so that God may be glorified through Jesus Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 4:10–1PE 4:11

## 1 Peter 4:12–13 (id: 165308)

**Why were the believers told to rejoice if they experienced the sufferings of Christ or were insulted for the name of Christ?**

Because they were blessed if they were insulted.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 4:12–1PE 4:13

## 1 Peter 4:15 (id: 165309)

**For what actions were Christians not to be found guilty and suffer?**

Christians were not to suffer as murderers, thieves, evildoers, or meddlers.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 4:15

## 1 Peter 4:17–18 (id: 165310)

**Why should the ungodly person and the sinner obey God’s gospel?**

The ungodly person and the sinner obey God’s gospel because their judgment will be even more severe that the judgment of righteous people.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 4:17–1PE 4:18

## 1 Peter 4:19 (id: 165311)

**How were those who suffered according to the will of God to act?**

They were to entrust their souls to the faithful Creator while they did good.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 4:19

## 1 Peter 5:1 (id: 165312)

**Who was Peter?**

Peter was a fellow elder, a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and a participant in the glory that will be revealed.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 5:1

## 1 Peter 5:1–2 (id: 165313)

**What did Peter exhort his fellow elders to do?**

He exhorted them to tend the flock of God and look after them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 5:1–1PE 5:2

## 1 Peter 5:5 (id: 165314)

**To whom were the younger men to submit?**

They were to submit to the older men.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 5:5

## 1 Peter 5:5–7 (id: 165315)

**Why did all of them need to have humility and serve one another?**

Because God gives grace to the humble, and so that God might exalt them in due time.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 5:5–1PE 5:7

## 1 Peter 5:8 (id: 165316)

**What is the devil like?**

He is like a roaring lion stalking around, looking for someone to devour.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 5:8

## 1 Peter 5:8–9 (id: 165317)

**What were the people instructed to do?**

They were instructed to be sober, to be watchful, to stand firm against the devil, and to be strong in their faith.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 5:8–1PE 5:9

## 1 Peter 5:10 (id: 165318)

**What would happen to the people after they had suffered for a little while?**

God would perfect, establish, and strengthen them.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 5:10

## 1 Peter 5:12 (id: 165319)

**As whom did Peter regard Silvanus?**

Peter regarded Silvanus as a faithful brother.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 5:12

## 1 Peter 5:12 (#2) (id: 165320)

**What did Peter say about what he had written?**

He said that what he had written was the true grace of God.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 5:12

## 1 Peter 5:13–14 (id: 165321)

**Who greeted the believers and how were they to greet one another?**

She who was in Babylon, and Mark, Peter’s son in the faith, greeted them; they were to greet one another with a kiss of love.

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 5:13–1PE 5:14

