# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## 2 John 1:1 (id: 166419)

**By what title does the writer John introduce himself in this letter?**

John introduces himself as the elder.

* **Associated Passages:** 2JN 1:1

## 2 John 1:1 (#2) (id: 166420)

**To whom is this letter written?**

The letter is written to the elect lady and her children.

* **Associated Passages:** 2JN 1:1

## 2 John 1:3 (id: 166421)

**From whom does John say grace, mercy, and peace come?**

John says grace, mercy, and peace come from God, the Father, and from Jesus Christ, his Son.

* **Associated Passages:** 2JN 1:3

## 2 John 1:4 (id: 166422)

**Why is John rejoicing?**

John is rejoicing because he has found some of the lady’s children walking in the truth.

* **Associated Passages:** 2JN 1:4

## 2 John 1:5 (id: 166423)

**What commandment does John say they have had from the beginning?**

The commandment they have from the beginning is that they love one another.

* **Associated Passages:** 2JN 1:5

## 2 John 1:6 (id: 166424)

**What does John say that love is?**

Love is to walk according to God’s commandments.

* **Associated Passages:** 2JN 1:6

## 2 John 1:7 (id: 166425)

**What does John call those who do not confess that Jesus Christ came in the flesh?**

John calls them the deceiver and the antichrist.

* **Associated Passages:** 2JN 1:7

## 2 John 1:8 (id: 166426)

**What does John tell the believers to be careful not to do?**

John tells the believers to be careful not to lose what they have worked for.

* **Associated Passages:** 2JN 1:8

## 2 John 1:10 (id: 166427)

**What does John tell the believers to do with anyone who does not bring the true teaching about Christ?**

They should not receive anyone who does not bring the true teaching about Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** 2JN 1:10

## 2 John 1:11 (id: 166428)

**Of what is a believer guilty if he receives someone who does not bring the true teaching about Christ?**

The believer who receives and greets a false teacher shares in his evil deeds.

* **Associated Passages:** 2JN 1:11

## 2 John 1:12 (id: 166429)

**What does John hope to do in the future?**

John hopes to come and speak directly with the elect lady.

* **Associated Passages:** 2JN 1:12

