# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Questions** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Questions* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## 3 John 1:1 (id: 167161)

**By what title does the author John introduce himself in this letter?**

John introduces himself as the elder.

* **Associated Passages:** 3JN 1:1

## 3 John 1:1 (#2) (id: 167162)

**What relationship does John have with Gaius, the one receiving this letter?**

John loves Gaius in truth.

* **Associated Passages:** 3JN 1:1

## 3 John 1:2 (id: 167163)

**For what does John pray concerning Gaius?**

John prays that Gaius would prosper in everything and be in health, as his soul prospers.

* **Associated Passages:** 3JN 1:2

## 3 John 1:4 (id: 167164)

**What is John’s greatest joy?**

John’s greatest joy is to hear that his children are walking in the truth.

* **Associated Passages:** 3JN 1:4

## 3 John 1:5 (id: 167165)

**For whom did Gaius work?**

Gaius worked for the brothers even though they were strangers.

* **Associated Passages:** 3JN 1:5

## 3 John 1:6 (id: 167166)

**How should Gaius send the brothers on?**

He should sent them on worthily of God.

* **Associated Passages:** 3JN 1:6

## 3 John 1:7 (id: 167167)

**Why did the brothers need help from the believers to send them out on their journey?**

They needed help because they were not accepting anything from the Gentiles.

* **Associated Passages:** 3JN 1:7

## 3 John 1:8 (id: 167168)

**Why does John say believers should welcome such people?**

John says believers should welcome them to become fellow\-workers with the truth.

* **Associated Passages:** 3JN 1:8

## 3 John 1:9 (id: 167169)

**What does Diotrephes love?**

Diotrephes loves to be first among the people of his church.

* **Associated Passages:** 3JN 1:9

## 3 John 1:9 (#2) (id: 167170)

**What is Diotrephes’ attitude toward John?**

Diotrephes does not receive John.

* **Associated Passages:** 3JN 1:9

## 3 John 1:10 (id: 167171)

**What will John do when he comes to Gaius and the congregation?**

When John comes, he will call attention to the works that Diotrephes is doing.

* **Associated Passages:** 3JN 1:10

## 3 John 1:10 (#2) (id: 167172)

**What does Diotrephes do with the brothers who are sent out?**

Diotrephes does not receive these brothers.

* **Associated Passages:** 3JN 1:10

## 3 John 1:10 (#3) (id: 167173)

**What does Diotrephes do with those who are willing to receive these brothers?**

Diotrephes stops them from receiving the brothers and puts them out of the church.

* **Associated Passages:** 3JN 1:10

## 3 John 1:11 (id: 167174)

**What does John tell Gaius to imitate?**

John tells Gaius to imitate what is good.

* **Associated Passages:** 3JN 1:11

## 3 John 1:14 (id: 167175)

**What does John expect to do in the future?**

John expects to come and speak with Gaius in person.

* **Associated Passages:** 3JN 1:14

