# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Questions_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Jude 1:1 (id: 173964)

**Of whom was Jude a servant?**

Jude was a servant of Jesus Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:1

## Jude 1:1 (#2) (id: 173965)

**Who was the brother of Jude?**

James was the brother of Jude.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:1

## Jude 1:1 (#3) (id: 173966)

**To whom did Jude write?**

He wrote to those who were called, beloved in God the Father, and kept for Jesus Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:1

## Jude 1:2 (id: 173967)

**What did Jude want multiplied to those to whom he wrote?**

Jude wanted mercy, peace, and love to be multiplied.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:2

## Jude 1:3 (id: 173968)

**What did Jude first want to write about?**

Jude first wanted to write about their common salvation.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:3

## Jude 1:3 (#2) (id: 173969)

**What did Jude actually write about?**

Jude actually wrote about the need to struggle for the faith of the saints.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:3

## Jude 1:4 (id: 173970)

**How did some condemned and ungodly men come?**

Some condemned and ungodly men came stealthily.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:4

## Jude 1:4 (#2) (id: 173971)

**What did the condemned and ungodly men do?**

They changed the grace of God into sexual immorality and denied Jesus Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:4

## Jude 1:5 (id: 173972)

**From where did the Lord once save people?**

The Lord saved them from the land of Egypt.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:5

## Jude 1:5 (#2) (id: 173973)

**What did the Lord do to those people who did not believe?**

The Lord destroyed those people who did not believe.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:5

## Jude 1:6 (id: 173974)

**What did the Lord do to the angels who left their proper place?**

The Lord put them in chains in darkness for judgment.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:6

## Jude 1:7 (id: 173975)

**What did Sodom, Gomorrah, and the cities around them do?**

They fornicated and pursued unnatural desires.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:7

## Jude 1:8 (id: 173976)

**Like Sodom, Gomorrah, and the cities around them, what do the condemned and ungodly men do?**

They pollute their bodies in their dreams, reject authority, and say evil things.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:8

## Jude 1:9 (id: 173977)

**What did the archangel Michael say to the devil?**

The archangel Michael said, “May the Lord rebuke you.”

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:9

## Jude 1:12 (id: 173978)

**For whom do the condemned and ungodly men shamelessly care?**

They shamelessly care for themselves.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:12

## Jude 1:14 (id: 173979)

**Enoch was which place in line from Adam?**

Enoch was the seventh in line from Adam.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:14

## Jude 1:15 (id: 173980)

**Upon whom will the Lord execute judgment?**

The Lord will execute judgment upon all people.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:15

## Jude 1:16 (id: 173981)

**Who are the ungodly men who will be convicted?**

Grumblers, complainers, those who go after their evil desires, loud boasters, and those who praise for personal advantage are the ungodly men who will be convicted.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:16

## Jude 1:17 (id: 173982)

**Who spoke words in the past about mockers?**

The apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ spoke words in the past about mockers.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:17

## Jude 1:19 (id: 173983)

**What is true of the mockers who go after the own ungodly lusts, who cause divisions and are sensual?**

They do not have the Holy Spirit.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:19

## Jude 1:20 (id: 173984)

**How were the beloved building themselves up and praying?**

The beloved were building themselves up in their most holy faith, and praying in the Holy Spirit.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:20

## Jude 1:21 (id: 173985)

**What were the beloved to keep themselves in and look for?**

The beloved were to keep themselves in and look for the love of God and the mercy of the Lord Jesus Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:21

## Jude 1:22–23 (id: 173986)

**Who were the beloved supposed to save?**

The beloved were supposed to save those with a garment spotted by the flesh, and those in the fire.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:22–JUD 1:23

## Jude 1:24–25 (id: 173987)

**What was God their Savior, through Jesus Christ their Lord, able to do?**

God was able to keep them from stumbling and place them before the presence of his glory without blemish.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:24–JUD 1:25

## Jude 1:25 (id: 173988)

**What things should be given to the only God our Savior through Jesus Christ our Lord?**

To the only God our Savior through Jesus Christ our Lord be glory, majesty, power, and authority.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:25

## Jude 1:25 (#2) (id: 173989)

**When did God have glory?**

God had glory before all time, now, and forevermore.

* **Associated Passages:** JUD 1:25

