# Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Questions (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Questions_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Revelation 1:1 (id: 178534)

**Who gave this revelation, to whom did he give it, and to whom was he supposed to show it?**

The revelation of Jesus Christ came from God, and is being shown to his servants.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 1:1

## Revelation 1:1 (#2) (id: 178535)

**When must the events of the revelation happen?**

The events of the revelation must happen soon.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 1:1

## Revelation 1:3 (id: 178536)

**Who will be blessed by this book?**

The one who reads aloud, listens to, and keeps what has been written in this book will be blessed.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 1:3

## Revelation 1:4 (id: 178537)

**Who wrote this book, and to whom did he write?**

John wrote this book, and he wrote it to the seven churches in Asia.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 1:4

## Revelation 1:5 (id: 178538)

**What three titles does John give to Jesus Christ?**

John gives Jesus Christ these titles: the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 1:5

## Revelation 1:6 (id: 178539)

**What has Jesus made believers?**

Jesus has made believers a kingdom and priests for his God and Father.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 1:6

## Revelation 1:7 (id: 178540)

**Who will see Jesus when he comes?**

Every eye, that is, every person, will see Jesus when he comes, including those who pierced him.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 1:7

## Revelation 1:8 (id: 178541)

**How does the Lord God describe himself?**

The Lord God describes himself as the alpha and the omega, the one who is, and who was, and who is to come, the Ruler of All.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 1:8

## Revelation 1:9 (id: 178542)

**Why was John on the island of Patmos?**

John was on the island of Patmos because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 1:9

## Revelation 1:11 (id: 178543)

**What did the loud voice behind John tell him to do?**

The loud voice told John to write what he saw on a scroll and send it to the seven churches.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 1:11

## Revelation 1:14 (id: 178544)

**John saw a man behind him. What kind of hair and eyes did the man have?**

The man had hair as white as wool or snow and eyes like a flame of fire.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 1:14

## Revelation 1:16 (id: 178545)

**What was in the right hand of the man, and what was coming out of his mouth?**

The man had seven stars in his right hand, and a sharp, double\-edged sword was coming out of his mouth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 1:16

## Revelation 1:17 (id: 178546)

**What did John do when he saw the man?**

John fell at the man’s feet like a dead man.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 1:17

## Revelation 1:18 (id: 178547)

**What keys did the man say he had?**

The man said he had the keys of death and of Hades.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 1:18

## Revelation 1:20 (id: 178548)

**What was the meaning of the seven stars and the seven golden lampstands?**

The seven stars were the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands were the seven churches.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 1:20

## Revelation 2:1 (id: 178549)

**To what angel is the next portion of the book written?**

The next portion of the book is written to the angel of the church in Ephesus.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:1

## Revelation 2:2 (id: 178550)

**How has the church in Ephesus related to evil people, and what has it done regarding the ones who call themselves apostles?**

The church in Ephesus has not put up with those who are evil and has tested the false prophets.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:2

## Revelation 2:4 (id: 178551)

**What does Christ have against the church in Ephesus?**

Christ has against the church in Ephesus that it has left behind its first love.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:4

## Revelation 2:5 (id: 178552)

**What does Christ say he will do if the churh do not repent?**

Christ says he will come and remove its lampstand from its place if the church does not repent.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:5

## Revelation 2:7 (id: 178553)

**What does Christ promise to those who conquer?**

Christ promises to allow those who conquer to eat from the tree of life in the paradise of God.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:7

## Revelation 2:8 (id: 178554)

**To what angel is the next portion of the book written?**

The next portion of the book is written to the angel of the church in Smyrna.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:8

## Revelation 2:9 (id: 178555)

**What difficulties is the church in Smyrna facing?**

The church in Smyrna is facing affliction, poverty, and slander.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:9

## Revelation 2:10 (id: 178556)

**What does Christ promise to those who are faithful until death?**

Christ promises that he will give the crown of life to those who are faithful until death.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:10

## Revelation 2:11 (id: 178557)

**What does Christ say about the one conquering?**

The one conquering will certainly not be hurt by the second death.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:11

## Revelation 2:12 (id: 178558)

**To what angel is the next portion of the book written?**

The next portion of the book is written to the angel of the church in Pergamum.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:12

## Revelation 2:13 (id: 178559)

**How does Christ describe the place where this church lives?**

Christ describes this as a place where Satan’s throne is.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:13

## Revelation 2:13 (#2) (id: 178560)

**What did the church in Pergamum do in the days when Antipas was killed?**

The church in Pergamum did not deny its faith in Jesus even in the days when Antipas was killed.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:13

## Revelation 2:14–15 (id: 178561)

**To what two teachings do some in the church in Pergamum hold tightly?**

Some in the church in Pergamum hold tightly to the teachings of Balaam and to the teachings of the Nicolaitans.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:14–REV 2:15

## Revelation 2:16 (id: 178562)

**What does Christ warn he will do if those who hold to these false teachings do not repent?**

Christ warns he will come and make war against them with the sword of his mouth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:16

## Revelation 2:17 (id: 178563)

**What does Christ say he will give to the one conquering?**

Christ promises that the will give the hidden manna and a white stone with a new name to the one conquering.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:17

## Revelation 2:18 (id: 178564)

**To what angel is the next portion of the book written?**

The next portion of the book is written to the angel of the church in Thyatira.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:18

## Revelation 2:19 (id: 178565)

**What good things does Christ know about regarding the church in Thyatira?**

Christ knows about the works, love, faith, service, and patient endurance of the church in Thyatira and that its last works are greater than its first works.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:19

## Revelation 2:20 (id: 178566)

**What does Christ have against the church in Thyatira?**

Christ has against the church in Thyatira that it tolerates the immoral false prophetess Jezebel.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:20

## Revelation 2:22 (id: 178567)

**What does Christ warn he will do if those who commit adultery with Jezebel do not repent of her deeds?**

Christ warns that he will throw these people into great tribulation if they do not repent.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:22

## Revelation 2:25 (id: 178568)

**What does Christ tell those who have not held to the teaching of Jezebel to do?**

Christ tells them to hold on tightly to what they have until he comes.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:25

## Revelation 2:26 (id: 178569)

**What does Christ promise to the one conquering?**

Christ promises to give authority over the nations to the one conquering.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:26

## Revelation 2:28 (id: 178570)

**What else does Christ promise to the one conquering?**

Christ also promises to give the morning star to the one conquering.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:28

## Revelation 2:29 (id: 178571)

**What does Christ say the one who has an ear should hear?**

Christ says that the one who has an ear, that is, the one who is able to hear, should hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 2:29

## Revelation 3:1 (id: 178572)

**To what angel is the next portion of the book written?**

The next portion of the book is written to the angel of the church in Sardis.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:1

## Revelation 3:1 (#2) (id: 178573)

**What is the reputation of the church in Sardis, but what is the truth about them?**

The reputation of the church in Sardis is that it is alive, but the truth is that it is dead.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:1

## Revelation 3:2 (id: 178574)

**What does Christ warn the church in Sardis to do?**

Christ warns them to wake up and strengthen what remains.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:2

## Revelation 3:5 (id: 178575)

**What does Christ promise to the one conquering?**

Christ promises to clothe the one conquering in white, to keep his name in the book of life, and to confess his name before his Father and his angels.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:5

## Revelation 3:7 (id: 178576)

**To what angel is the next portion of the book written?**

The next portion of the book is written to the angel of the church in Philadelphia.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:7

## Revelation 3:8 (id: 178577)

**What has the church in Philadelphia done even though they have little strength?**

The church in Philadelphia has kept Christ’s word and has not denied his name.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:8

## Revelation 3:9 (id: 178578)

**What will Christ make those of the synagogue of Satan do?**

Christ will make those of the synagogue of Satan bow down before the feet of the believers.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:9

## Revelation 3:11 (id: 178579)

**What does Christ tell the church of Philadelphia to do since he is coming soon?**

Christ tells them to hold fast to what they have so that no one may take away their crown.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:11

## Revelation 3:12 (id: 178580)

**What does Christ promise to the one conquering?**

Christ promises to make the one conquering a pillar in the temple of his God, and he promises to write on him the name of his God, the name of the city of his God, and his own new name.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:12

## Revelation 3:14 (id: 178581)

**To what angel is the next portion of the book written?**

The next portion of the book is written to the angel of the church in Laodicea.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:14

## Revelation 3:15 (id: 178582)

**What does Christ wish that the church in Laodicea was?**

Christ wishes that the church in Laodicea was either cold or hot.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:15

## Revelation 3:16 (id: 178583)

**What is Christ about to do to the church in Laodicea, and why?**

Christ is about to vomit the church in Laodicea out of his mouth because they are lukewarm.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:16

## Revelation 3:17 (id: 178584)

**What does the church in Laodicea say about itself?**

The church in Laodicea says that it is rich and has become wealthy and is in need of nothing.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:17

## Revelation 3:17 (#2) (id: 178585)

**What does Christ say that the church in Laodicea does not know?**

Christ says the church in Laodicea does not know that it is miserable, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:17

## Revelation 3:19 (id: 178586)

**What does Christ do for everyone he loves?**

Christ rebukes and disciplines everyone he loves.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:19

## Revelation 3:21 (id: 178587)

**What does Christ promise to the one conquering?**

Christ promises to let the one conquering sit with him on his throne.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:21

## Revelation 3:22 (id: 178588)

**What does Christ say the one who has an ear should do?**

Christ says that the one who has an ear, that is, who is able to hear, should hear what the Spirit says to the churches.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 3:22

## Revelation 4:1 (id: 178589)

**What did John see opened?**

John saw an open door in heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 4:1

## Revelation 4:1 (#2) (id: 178590)

**What did the voice say he would show John?**

The voice said he would show John what must happen after these things.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 4:1

## Revelation 4:2 (id: 178591)

**What was someone sitting on in heaven?**

Someone was sitting on a throne in heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 4:2

## Revelation 4:4 (id: 178592)

**What was around the throne in heaven?**

Around the throne were 24 thrones with 24 elders seated on them.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 4:4

## Revelation 4:5 (id: 178593)

**What were the seven lamps burning in front of the throne?**

The seven lamps were the seven spirits of God.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 4:5

## Revelation 4:6 (id: 178594)

**What four things were around the throne?**

Four living creatures full of eyes were around the throne.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 4:6

## Revelation 4:8 (id: 178595)

**What word describing God do the four living creatures repeat night and day?**

Night and day the four living creatures repeat the word "holy."

* **Associated Passages:** REV 4:8

## Revelation 4:10 (id: 178596)

**What do the 24 elders do when the living creatures give glory to God?**

The 24 elders fall down (that is, bow down) before the throne and lay down their crowns.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 4:10

## Revelation 4:11 (id: 178597)

**Why do the elders say that God is worthy to receive glory, honor, and power?**

The elders say that God is worthy because God created all things and by his will they existed and were created.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 4:11

## Revelation 5:1 (id: 178598)

**What did John see in the right hand of the one seated on the throne?**

John saw a scroll written on the inside and the back and sealed with seven seals.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 5:1

## Revelation 5:3–4 (id: 178599)

**At first, who was able to open the scroll or read it?**

No one in heaven or on the earth or under the earth was worthy to open the scroll or read it.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 5:3–REV 5:4

## Revelation 5:5 (id: 178600)

**Who did the elder tell John was able to open the scroll and its seven seals?**

The elder told John that the Lion from the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, was able to open the scroll and its seven seals.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 5:5

## Revelation 5:6 (id: 178601)

**Who was standing among the elders?**

A Lamb, looking as though he had been killed, was standing among the elders.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 5:6

## Revelation 5:6 (#2) (id: 178602)

**What were the seven horns and seven eyes on the Lamb?**

The seven horns and seven eyes were the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 5:6

## Revelation 5:8 (id: 178603)

**What were the gold bowls full of incense that the elders had?**

The gold bowls full of incense were the prayers of the saints.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 5:8

## Revelation 5:9 (id: 178604)

**Why was the Lamb worthy to open the scroll?**

The Lamb was worthy because he was slaughtered and with his blood he bought people for God from every tribe, language, people, and nation.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 5:9

## Revelation 5:10 (id: 178605)

**Where will these priests of God reign?**

The priests of God will reign on the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 5:10

## Revelation 5:12 (id: 178606)

**What did the angels say the Lamb was worthy to receive?**

The angels said the Lamb was worthy to receive power, wealth, wisdom, strength, honor, glory, and praise.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 5:12

## Revelation 5:13 (id: 178607)

**Who said that the one on the throne and the Lamb should be praised to the ages of the ages (that is, forever)?**

Every creature said that the one on the throne and the Lamb should be praised to the ages of the ages.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 5:13

## Revelation 5:14 (id: 178608)

**What did the elders do when they heard the four living creatures say “Amen”?**

The elders fell down (that is, bowed down) and worshiped.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 5:14

## Revelation 6:1 (id: 178609)

**What did John see the Lamb do with the scroll?**

John saw the Lamb open one of the seven seals on the scroll.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 6:1

## Revelation 6:2 (id: 178610)

**What did John see after the first seal was opened?**

John saw a white horse whose rider went out conquering.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 6:2

## Revelation 6:4 (id: 178611)

**What did John see after the second seal was opened?**

John saw a fiery red horse whose rider was allowed to take peace away from the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 6:4

## Revelation 6:5 (id: 178612)

**What did John see after the third seal was opened?**

John saw a black horse whose rider held a pair of scales in his hand.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 6:5

## Revelation 6:8 (id: 178613)

**What did John see after the fourth seal was opened?**

John saw a pale horse whose rider was named Death.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 6:8

## Revelation 6:9 (id: 178614)

**What did John see after the fifth seal was opened?**

John saw the souls of those who had been killed because of the word of God and the testimony they held.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 6:9

## Revelation 6:10 (id: 178615)

**What did the souls under the altar want to know from God?**

The souls wanted to know how long it would be until God avenged their blood.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 6:10

## Revelation 6:11 (id: 178616)

**How long were the souls told they would have to wait?**

The souls were told they would have to wait until the full number of fellow servants and brothers (that is, fellow believers) were killed.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 6:11

## Revelation 6:12–13 (id: 178617)

**What did John see after the sixth seal was opened?**

John saw an earthquake, the sun becoming black, the moon becoming like blood, and the stars falling to the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 6:12–REV 6:13

## Revelation 6:15–16 (id: 178618)

**What did John see the kings, generals, rich, powerful, and everyone else doing?**

John saw them hiding in caves and asking the rocks to fall on them and hide them.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 6:15–REV 6:16

## Revelation 6:16 (id: 178619)

**From what did the kings, generals, rich, powerful, and everyone else want to be hidden?**

They wanted to be hidden from the one seated on the throne and from the anger of the Lamb.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 6:16

## Revelation 6:17 (id: 178620)

**What day had come?**

The great day of the anger of the one sitting on the throne and the Lamb had come.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 6:17

## Revelation 7:1 (id: 178621)

**What were the four angels standing on the four corners of the earth doing when John saw them?**

The four angels were holding back the four winds of the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 7:1

## Revelation 7:2–3 (id: 178622)

**What did the angel coming from the rising of the sun (that is, the east) say must be done before the earth, sea, and trees were harmed?**

The angel said that the servants of God must be sealed on their foreheads before the earth, sea, and trees were harmed.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 7:2–REV 7:3

## Revelation 7:4 (id: 178623)

**How many people were sealed and who were they?**

144 thousands (that is, 144,000 people) were sealed, and they were from every tribe of the sons of Israel.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 7:4

## Revelation 7:9 (id: 178624)

**What did John then see before the throne of God and in front of the Lamb?**

John saw a great multitude from every nation, tribe, people, and language before the throne.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 7:9

## Revelation 7:10 (id: 178625)

**The great multitude called out that salvation belonged to someone. To whom did it belong?**

Those before the throne called out that salvation belonged to God and to the Lamb.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 7:10

## Revelation 7:11 (id: 178626)

**What did the angels, elders, and living creatures do as they worshiped God?**

They fell on their faces, that is, they lay down and put their faces on the ground, as they worshiped God.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 7:11

## Revelation 7:14 (id: 178627)

**Who did the elder say were the ones clothed in white robes before the throne?**

The elder said they were the ones who had come out of the great tribulation.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 7:14

## Revelation 7:14 (#2) (id: 178628)

**How had the ones before the throne made their robes white?**

They had made their robes white by washing them in the blood of the Lamb.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 7:14

## Revelation 7:15–16 (id: 178629)

**What did the elder say God would do for those who were clothed in white robes?**

God would spread his tent over them so they would not be hungry or thirsty or burned by the sun anymore.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 7:15–REV 7:16

## Revelation 7:17 (id: 178630)

**What did the elder say the Lamb would do for those who are clothed in white robes?**

The Lamb will shepherd them and guide them to springs of living water.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 7:17

## Revelation 8:1 (id: 178631)

**There was silence in heaven after something happened. What happened?**

There was silence in heaven after the Lamb opened the seventh seal.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 8:1

## Revelation 8:2 (id: 178632)

**What was given to the seven angels who stand before God?**

Seven trumpets were given to the seven angels who stand before God.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 8:2

## Revelation 8:4 (id: 178633)

**What rose up before God?**

The smoke of incense with the prayers of the saints rose up before God.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 8:4

## Revelation 8:5 (id: 178634)

**What happened when the angel threw fire from the altar down onto the earth?**

When the angel threw down the fire, there there were crashes of thunder, loud sounds, flashes of lightning, and an earthquake.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 8:5

## Revelation 8:7 (id: 178635)

**What happened when the first angel sounded a trumpet?**

When the first tangel sounded a trumpet, a third of the earth was burned up along with a third of the trees and all the green grass.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 8:7

## Revelation 8:8–9 (id: 178636)

**What happened when the second angel sounded a trumpet?**

When the second angel sounded a trumpet, a third of the sea became blood, a third of the creatures in the sea died, and a third of the ships were destroyed.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 8:8–REV 8:9

## Revelation 8:10–11 (id: 178637)

**What happened when the third angel sounded a trumpet?**

When the third angel sounded a trumpet, a third of the waters became wormwood and many people died.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 8:10–REV 8:11

## Revelation 8:12 (id: 178638)

**What happened when the fourth angel sounded a trumpet?**

When the fourth angel sounded a trumpet, it became dark for a third of the day and the night.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 8:12

## Revelation 8:13 (id: 178639)

**Why did the eagle say “Woe, woe, woe to the ones living on the earth"?**

The eagle said “Woe, woe, woe, to the ones on the earth" because of the remaining three trumpet blasts.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 8:13

## Revelation 9:1 (id: 178640)

**What kind of star did John see when the fifth angel sounded a trumpet?**

When the fifth angel sounded a trumpet, John saw a star from heaven that had fallen to the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 9:1

## Revelation 9:2 (id: 178641)

**What did the star do?**

The star opened the shaft of the abyss.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 9:2

## Revelation 9:3–4 (id: 178642)

**What did God tell the locusts from the pit to do?**

God told the locusts locusts not to damage the earth but only the people who did not have the seal of God.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 9:3–REV 9:4

## Revelation 9:6 (id: 178643)

**What would the people tormented by the locusts seek but not find?**

The people tormented by the locusts would seek death but would not find it.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 9:6

## Revelation 9:9 (id: 178644)

**What did the wings of the locusts sound like?**

The wings of the locusts sounded like many chariots and horses running into battle.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 9:9

## Revelation 9:11 (id: 178645)

**Who was the king over the locusts?**

The king over the locusts was the angel of the abyss.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 9:11

## Revelation 9:12 (id: 178646)

**What did John call the locusts that came when the fifth angel sounded a trumpet?**

John called these locusts the "first woe."

* **Associated Passages:** REV 9:12

## Revelation 9:13 (id: 178647)

**From where did John hear a voice when the sixth angel sounded a trumpet?**

When the sixth angel sounded a trumpet, John heard a voice coming from the golden altar before God.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 9:13

## Revelation 9:15 (id: 178648)

**What happened to the four angels after the voice spoke?**

After the voice spoke, the four angels were released to kill a third of humanity.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 9:15

## Revelation 9:16 (id: 178649)

**How many horse soldiers did John see?**

John saw two myriads of myriads of horse soldiers, that is, two hundred million (200,000,000\) horse soldiers.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 9:16

## Revelation 9:18 (id: 178650)

**What plagues killed a third of humanity?**

The plagues of fire, smoke, and sulfur from the mouths of the horses killed a third of humanity.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 9:18

## Revelation 9:20 (id: 178651)

**How did the people not killed in the plagues respond?**

The people not killed in the plagues did not repent of their works, that is, they did not stop worshiping demons and idols.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 9:20

## Revelation 10:1 (id: 178652)

**What did the face and feet of the mighty angel that John saw look like?**

The angel had a face like the sun and feet like pillars of fire.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 10:1

## Revelation 10:2 (id: 178653)

**Where did the angel stand?**

The angel stood with his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the land.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 10:2

## Revelation 10:4 (id: 178654)

**What did the voice from heaven tell John not to write?**

The voice from heaven told John not to write what the seven thunders said.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 10:4

## Revelation 10:6 (id: 178655)

**By whom did the mighty angel swear?**

The mighty angel swore by him who lives to the ages of the ages (that is, forever), who created heaven, the earth, the sea, and the things in them.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 10:6

## Revelation 10:7 (id: 178656)

**What did the mighty angel say would be accomplished in the days of the sound of the seventh angel?**

The angel said that when the seventh angel sounded a trumpet, the mystery of God would be accomplished.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 10:7

## Revelation 10:8 (id: 178657)

**What did the voice tell John to take from the mighty angel?**

The voice told John to take an open scroll from the angel.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 10:8

## Revelation 10:9 (id: 178658)

**What did the angel say would happen when John ate the scroll?**

The angel said that the scroll would taste sweet in John’s mouth but that it would make his stomach bitter.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 10:9

## Revelation 10:11 (id: 178659)

**After he ate the scroll, about what was John told to prophesy?**

John was told to prophesy about many peoples, nations, languages, and kings.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 10:11

## Revelation 11:1 (id: 178660)

**What was John told to measure?**

John was told to measure the temple of God and the altar and the ones worshiping in the temple.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 11:1

## Revelation 11:2 (id: 178661)

**For how long would the Gentiles trample the holy city?**

The Gentiles would trample the holy city for 42 months.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 11:2

## Revelation 11:5 (id: 178662)

**What were the two witnesses given the authority to do to anyone who wished to harm them?**

The two witnesses were given the authority to kill with fire anyone who wished to harm them.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 11:5

## Revelation 11:8 (id: 178663)

**Where will the bodies of the two witnesses lie?**

Their bodies will lie in the public square of the great city.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 11:8

## Revelation 11:10 (id: 178664)

**How will the people of the earth react when the two witnesses are killed?**

The people of the earth will rejoice and celebrate and send gifts to one another when the two witnesses are killed.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 11:10

## Revelation 11:11–12 (id: 178665)

**What will happen to the two witnesses after three and a half days?**

After three and a half days, a breath of life will enter the two witnesses and they will stand on their feet.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 11:11–REV 11:12

## Revelation 11:14 (id: 178666)

**After the two witnesses go up to heaven and there is an earthquake, what has passed?**

After the two witnesses go up to heaven and there is an earthquake, the second woe has passed

* **Associated Passages:** REV 11:14

## Revelation 11:15 (id: 178667)

**When the seventh angel sounded a trumpet, what did loud voices in heaven say?**

When the seventh angel sounded a trumpet, loud voices in heaven said that the kingdom of the world had become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 11:15

## Revelation 11:17 (id: 178668)

**What did the elders say that the Lord God had now done?**

The elders said that the Lord God had taken his great power and reigned.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 11:17

## Revelation 11:18 (id: 178669)

**According to the elders, what time had now come?**

The elders said that the time had now come for the dead to be judged and for God to reward his servants and destroy the ones destroying the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 11:18

## Revelation 11:19 (id: 178670)

**What was then opened in heaven?**

God’s temple was then opened in heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 11:19

## Revelation 12:1 (id: 178671)

**What great sign was seen in heaven?**

The great sign seen in heaven was a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet and a crown of twelve stars on her head.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 12:1

## Revelation 12:3 (id: 178672)

**What other great sign was seen in heaven?**

The other great sign seen in heaven was a large red dragon with seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns on his heads.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 12:3

## Revelation 12:4 (id: 178673)

**What did the dragon's tail do?**

The dragon's tail swept away a third of the stars of heaven and hurled them down to earth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 12:4

## Revelation 12:4 (#2) (id: 178674)

**What did the dragon want to do when the woman gave birth?**

The dragon wanted to devour the woman's child when she gave birth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 12:4

## Revelation 12:5 (id: 178675)

**What was the male child going to do?**

The male child was going to rule all the nations with an iron scepter.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 12:5

## Revelation 12:5 (#2) (id: 178676)

**To where was the male child snatched away?**

The male child was snatched away to God and to his throne.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 12:5

## Revelation 12:6 (id: 178677)

**To where did the woman flee?**

The woman fled into the wilderness.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 12:6

## Revelation 12:7 (id: 178678)

**Who fought in heaven?**

Michael and his angels fought against the dragon and his angels.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 12:7

## Revelation 12:9 (id: 178679)

**What happened to the dragon and his angels as a result of the battle?**

The dragon and his angels were thrown down to the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 12:9

## Revelation 12:9 (#2) (id: 178680)

**Who is the dragon?**

The dragon is the ancient serpent called Diabolos and Satan.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 12:9

## Revelation 12:11 (id: 178681)

**How did the brothers conquer the dragon?**

The brothers conquered the dragon through the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 12:11

## Revelation 12:12 (id: 178682)

**How much time does the dragon know he has?**

The dragon knows he has only a little time.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 12:12

## Revelation 12:13–14 (id: 178683)

**What did God give the woman when the dragon pursued her?**

When the dragon pursued her, God gave the woman wings to fly to the place prepared for her, where she would be nourished.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 12:13–REV 12:14

## Revelation 12:15–17 (id: 178684)

**After the earth helped the woman, what did the dragon do?**

The dragon went off to make war with those who keeping God’s commandments and having the testimony about Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 12:15–REV 12:17

## Revelation 13:1 (id: 178685)

**From where did the beast come that John saw?**

The beast that John saw came up from the sea.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 13:1

## Revelation 13:2 (id: 178686)

**What did the dragon give to the beast?**

The dragon gave the beast his power, his throne, and great authority.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 13:2

## Revelation 13:3 (id: 178687)

**Why was the whole earth astonished?**

The whole earth was astonished because the beast had a wound of death (a fatal wound) that had been healed.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 13:3

## Revelation 13:5–6 (id: 178688)

**What did the beast say with the mouth it was given?**

The beast spoke great (proud) things and blasphemies against God, his name, his tabernacle, and those living in heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 13:5–REV 13:6

## Revelation 13:7 (id: 178689)

**What was the beast allowed to do against the saints?**

The beast was allowed to make war against the saints and to conquer them.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 13:7

## Revelation 13:8 (id: 178690)

**Who will not worship the beast?**

Anyone whose name is written in the Book of Life will not worship the beast.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 13:8

## Revelation 13:10 (id: 178691)

**What qualities does John say the saints must have?**

John says that the saints must have endurance and faith.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 13:10

## Revelation 13:11 (id: 178692)

**From where did the other beast come that John saw?**

The other beast that John saw came up out of the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 13:11

## Revelation 13:11 (#2) (id: 178693)

**What kind of horns and voice did the other beast have?**

The other beast had horns like a lamb but its voice sounded like a dragon's voice (it was speaking like a dragon).

* **Associated Passages:** REV 13:11

## Revelation 13:12 (id: 178694)

**The other beast caused those who live on the earth to do something. What was it?**

The other beast caused those who live on the earth to worship the first beast.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 13:12

## Revelation 13:15 (id: 178695)

**What did the other beast do to whoever did not worship the image of the beast?**

The other beast caused whoever did not worship the image of the beast to be killed.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 13:15

## Revelation 13:16 (id: 178696)

**What did the other beast cause everyone to receive?**

The other beast caused everyone to receive a mark on the right hand or on the forehead.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 13:16

## Revelation 13:18 (id: 178697)

**What is the number of the beast?**

The number of the beast is 666\.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 13:18

## Revelation 14:1 (id: 178698)

**Whom did John see standing on Mount Zion?**

John saw the Lamb and 144 thousands (144,000 people) standing on Mount Zion.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 14:1

## Revelation 14:3 (id: 178699)

**Who was able to learn the new song that was sung before the throne?**

Only the 144,000 people who had been bought from the earth were able to learn the new song.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 14:3

## Revelation 14:4–5 (id: 178700)

**Who have been bought as first fruits for God and for the Lamb?**

The 144,000 blameless people have been bought as first fruits to God and to the Lamb.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 14:4–REV 14:5

## Revelation 14:6 (id: 178701)

**To whom did the angel give the eternal message of good news?**

The angel gave the eternal message of good news to every nation, tribe, language, and people on the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 14:6

## Revelation 14:7 (id: 178702)

**What did the angel tell those the ones living on the earth to do?**

The angel told them to fear God and to give him glory.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 14:7

## Revelation 14:7 (#2) (id: 178703)

**What hour (time) did the angel say had come?**

The angel said the hour of God’s judgment had come.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 14:7

## Revelation 14:8 (id: 178704)

**What did the second angel say had happened?**

The second angel said that Babylon the Great had fallen.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 14:8

## Revelation 14:10 (id: 178705)

**What did the third angel say would happen to anyone who worshiped the beast and received his mark?**

The third angel said that those who worshiped the beast and received his mark would be tormented with fire and sulfur.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 14:10

## Revelation 14:12 (id: 178706)

**What quality did John say the saints should have?**

John said that the saints should have endurance.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 14:12

## Revelation 14:14 (id: 178707)

**Whom did John see seated on a white cloud?**

John saw one like a son of man seated on a white cloud.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 14:14

## Revelation 14:16 (id: 178708)

**What did the one sitting on the cloud do?**

The one sitting on the cloud swung his sickle and harvested the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 14:16

## Revelation 14:19 (id: 178709)

**What did the angel with the sickle do?**

The angel with the sickle harvested the grapevine of the earth and threw the grapes into the great winepress of the wrath of God.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 14:19

## Revelation 14:20 (id: 178710)

**What came out from the winepress when it was trampled?**

Blood came out from the winepress when it was trampled.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 14:20

## Revelation 15:1 (id: 178711)

**What did the seven angels have whom John saw?**

The seven angels had seven final plagues.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 15:1

## Revelation 15:2 (id: 178712)

**Who was standing by the sea?**

The ones being victorious over the beast and his image and the number of his name were standing by the sea.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 15:2

## Revelation 15:3 (id: 178713)

**Whose song were those standing by the sea singing?**

Those standing by the sea were singing the song of Moses and the song of the Lamb.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 15:3

## Revelation 15:3 (#2) (id: 178714)

**How were God’s ways described in the song?**

God’s ways were described as righteous and true.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 15:3

## Revelation 15:4 (id: 178715)

**According to the song, who will come and worship God?**

All nations will come and worship God.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 15:4

## Revelation 15:6 (id: 178716)

**Who then came out from the temple?**

The seven angels having the seven plagues then came out from the temple.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 15:6

## Revelation 15:7 (id: 178717)

**What did one of the four living creatures give to the seven angels?**

One of the four living creatures gave the seven angelsseven bowls full of the wrath of God.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 15:7

## Revelation 15:8 (id: 178718)

**Until when could no one enter the temple?**

No one could enter the temple until the seven plagues were completed.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 15:8

## Revelation 16:1 (id: 178719)

**What did the voice tell the seven angels to do?**

The voice told the seven angels to go and pour out on the earth the seven bowls of God’s wrath onto the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 16:1

## Revelation 16:2 (id: 178720)

**What happened when the first angel poured out his bowl?**

The people who had the mark of the beast and who worshiped its image got bad sores.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 16:2

## Revelation 16:3 (id: 178721)

**What happened when the second angel poured out his bowl?**

The sea became like the blood of a dead person.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 16:3

## Revelation 16:4 (id: 178722)

**What happened when the third angel poured out his bowl?**

The rivers and springs of water became blood.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 16:4

## Revelation 16:6 (id: 178723)

**Why was it true and just that God gave these people blood to drink?**

It was true and just because these people had poured out the blood of God’s saints and prophets.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 16:6

## Revelation 16:8 (id: 178724)

**What happened when the fourth angel poured out his bowl?**

The sun scorched people with fire.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 16:8

## Revelation 16:9 (id: 178725)

**How did the people respond to these plagues?**

The people did not repent to give God glory.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 16:9

## Revelation 16:10 (id: 178726)

**What happened when the fifth angel poured out his bowl?**

The kingdom of the beast became darkened.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 16:10

## Revelation 16:12 (id: 178727)

**What happened when the sixth angel poured out his bowl?**

The water of the Euphrates River was dried up to prepare the way for the kings from the rising of the sun (from the east).

* **Associated Passages:** REV 16:12

## Revelation 16:13–14 (id: 178728)

**What did the three unclean spirits go out to do?**

The three unclean spirits went out to gather the kings of the world for battle on the great day of God.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 16:13–REV 16:14

## Revelation 16:16 (id: 178729)

**What was the name of the place where the kings of the world were brought together?**

The name of the place was Armageddon.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 16:16

## Revelation 16:17–18 (id: 178730)

**What happened when the seventh angel poured out his bowl?**

A loud voice said, “It is has happened!” and there was lightning, sounds, thunder, and an earthquake.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 16:17–REV 16:18

## Revelation 16:19 (id: 178731)

**At this time, what did God remember?**

At this time, God remembered to give Babylon the Great the cup of the wine of the wrath of his anger.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 16:19

## Revelation 16:21 (id: 178732)

**How did the people respond to the plague of hail?**

The people blasphemed God.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 16:21

## Revelation 17:1 (id: 178733)

**What did the angel say he would show John?**

The angel said he would show John the judgment of the great prostitute.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 17:1

## Revelation 17:3 (id: 178734)

**On what was the woman sitting?**

The woman was sitting on a scarlet beast that had seven heads and ten horns.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 17:3

## Revelation 17:4 (id: 178735)

**What was in the cup which the woman held in her hand?**

The cup was full of abominations and the impurities of her sexual immorality.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 17:4

## Revelation 17:5 (id: 178736)

**What was the woman’s name?**

The woman’s name was “Babylon the Great, the Mother of Prostitutes and of the Abominations of the Earth.”

* **Associated Passages:** REV 17:5

## Revelation 17:6 (id: 178737)

**With what was the woman drunk?**

The woman was drunk with the blood of the saints and witnesses for Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 17:6

## Revelation 17:8 (id: 178738)

**From where did the beast come on which the woman sat?**

The beast came up from the abyss.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 17:8

## Revelation 17:8 (#2) (id: 178739)

**To where was the beast going?**

The beast was going to destruction.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 17:8

## Revelation 17:9–10 (id: 178740)

**What were the seven heads of the beast?**

The seven heads were seven hills on which the woman was seated, and they were also seven kings.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 17:9–REV 17:10

## Revelation 17:11 (id: 178741)

**To where was the beast going?**

The beast was going to destruction.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 17:11

## Revelation 17:12 (id: 178742)

**What were the ten horns of the beast?**

The ten horns were ten kings.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 17:12

## Revelation 17:13–14 (id: 178743)

**What will the kings and the beast do when they are of one mind?**

When they are of one mind, they will make war against the Lamb.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 17:13–REV 17:14

## Revelation 17:15 (id: 178744)

**What were the waters where the prostitute was sitting?**

The waters were peoples, multitudes, nations, and languages.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 17:15

## Revelation 17:16 (id: 178745)

**What would the kings and the beast do to the woman?**

They would make the woman desolated and naked, consume her flesh, and burn her completely with fire.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 17:16

## Revelation 17:18 (id: 178746)

**What was the woman that John saw?**

The woman that John saw was the great city that has a kingdom over the kings of the earth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 17:18

## Revelation 18:1–2 (id: 178747)

**What announcement did the angel with great authority make?**

The angel announced that Babylon the Great had fallen.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 18:1–REV 18:2

## Revelation 18:4 (id: 178748)

**What did the voice from heaven tell God’s people to do?**

The voice told God’s people to come out from Babylon in order not share in her sins.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 18:4

## Revelation 18:6 (id: 178749)

**What amount of payment did God give back to Babylon for what she had done?**

God paid back Babylon double for what she had done.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 18:6

## Revelation 18:8 (id: 178750)

**What plagues will come on Babylon in one day?**

Death, mourning, and famine will come on Babylon in one day, and she will be consumed with fire.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 18:8

## Revelation 18:9 (id: 178751)

**How did the kings and merchants of the earth respond when they saw Babylon’s judgment?**

When the kings and merchants of the earth saw Babylon’s judgment, they wept and wailed over her.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 18:9

## Revelation 18:9–10 (id: 178752)

**Why will the kings, merchants and ship’s captains stand at a distance from Babylon at her time of judgment?**

They will stand at a distance because they are afraid of her torment.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 18:9–REV 18:10

## Revelation 18:14 (id: 178753)

**What kinds of things perished from Babylon?**

Luxurious and splendid things perished from Babylon.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 18:14

## Revelation 18:15 (id: 178754)

**Why will the kings, merchants and ship’s captains stand at a distance from Babylon at her time of judgment?**

They will stand at a distance because they are afraid of her torment.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 18:15

## Revelation 18:18 (id: 178755)

**What question did the ship captains ask about Babylon?**

The ship captains asked, “What city is like the great city?”

* **Associated Passages:** REV 18:18

## Revelation 18:20 (id: 178756)

**What were heaven and the saints, apostles, and prophets told to do when God judged Babylon?**

Heaven and the saints, apostles, and prophets were told to rejoice when God judged Babylon.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 18:20

## Revelation 18:21 (id: 178757)

**After Babylon's judgment, when will she be seen again?**

After her judgment, Babylon will be seen no more.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 18:21

## Revelation 18:24 (id: 178758)

**What was found in the great city Babylon, for which she was judged?**

The blood of prophets, saints, and all who have been killed on the earth was found in Babylon.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 18:24

## Revelation 19:1–2 (id: 178759)

**What did the loud voice in heaven say about God’s judgments?**

The loud voice in heaven said that God’s judgments were true and righteous.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 19:1–REV 19:2

## Revelation 19:2 (id: 178760)

**Why did God judge the great prostitute?**

God judged the great prostitute because she corrupted the earth with her sexual immorality and shed the blood of God’s servants.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 19:2

## Revelation 19:3 (id: 178761)

**What will happen to the great prostitute forever and ever?**

The smoke of the great prostitute will rise to the ages of the ages (forever).

* **Associated Passages:** REV 19:3

## Revelation 19:5 (id: 178762)

**What did the voice tell the servants of God to do?**

The voice told the servants of God to praise him.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 19:5

## Revelation 19:7 (id: 178763)

**Why did the voice say that the servants of God should rejoice and be very happy?**

The servants of God were told to rejoice and be very happy because the wedding celebration of the Lamb had come.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 19:7

## Revelation 19:8 (id: 178764)

**With what was the bride of the Lamb dressed?**

The bride was dressed in bright, clean fine linen.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 19:8

## Revelation 19:10 (id: 178765)

**What did the angel say that the testimony of Jesus was?**

The angel said that the testimony of Jesus was the spirit of prophecy.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 19:10

## Revelation 19:11–13 (id: 178766)

**What was the one called whom John saw riding on a white horse?**

The one John saw riding on a white horse was called Faithful and True.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 19:11–REV 19:13

## Revelation 19:15 (id: 178767)

**What does the Word of God, the rider on the white horse, use to strike down the nations?**

The Word of God, the rider on the white horse, uses the sharp sword that goes out of his mouth to strike down the nations.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 19:15

## Revelation 19:16 (id: 178768)

**What name is written on the Word of God’s robe and thigh?**

The name written on his robe and thigh is King of Kings and Lord of Lords.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 19:16

## Revelation 19:18 (id: 178769)

**What were the birds flying overhead called to eat at the great supper?**

The birds were called to eat the flesh of kings, chiliarchs (commanders), mighty warriors, horses and their riders, and all kinds of people.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 19:18

## Revelation 19:19 (id: 178770)

**What did the beast and the kings of the earth gather to do?**

They gathered to make war with the one sitting on the white horse and his army.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 19:19

## Revelation 19:20 (id: 178771)

**What happened to the beast and the false prophet?**

The beast and the false prophet were both thrown alive into lake of fire burning with sulfur.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 19:20

## Revelation 19:21 (id: 178772)

**What happened to the rest of those who fought against the one sitting on the horse?**

The rest were killed by the sword coming out of the mouth of the one sitting on the horse.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 19:21

## Revelation 20:1 (id: 178773)

**What did the angel coming down from heaven have in his hand?**

The angel had in his hand the key to the abyss and a great chain.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 20:1

## Revelation 20:2–3 (id: 178774)

**How long would Satan remain bound?**

Satan would remain bound for a thousand years.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 20:2–REV 20:3

## Revelation 20:3 (id: 178775)

**What did the angel do with Satan?**

The angel threw Satan into the bottomless pit.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 20:3

## Revelation 20:3 (#2) (id: 178776)

**What would Satan not be able to do while he was bound?**

Satan would not be able to deceive the nations while he was bound.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 20:3

## Revelation 20:4 (id: 178777)

**What happened to those who had refused to receive the mark of the beast?**

Those who had refused to receive the mark of the beast came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 20:4

## Revelation 20:5 (id: 178778)

**When would the rest of the dead come to life?**

The rest of the dead would come to life when the thousand years were ended.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 20:5

## Revelation 20:6 (id: 178779)

**What would those who took part in the first resurrection do?**

Those who took part in the first resurrection would be priests of God and Christ and would reign with him for a thousand years.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 20:6

## Revelation 20:8 (id: 178780)

**What will Satan do at the end of the thousand years?**

At the end of the thousand years, Satan will be released to go out to deceive the nations.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 20:8

## Revelation 20:9 (id: 178781)

**What happened when the camp of the saints was surrounded?**

When the camp of the saints was surrounded, fire came down from heaven and devoured Gog and Magog.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 20:9

## Revelation 20:10 (id: 178782)

**What was done with the devil at this time?**

The devil was thrown into the lake of fire to be tormented forever.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 20:10

## Revelation 20:12 (id: 178783)

**By what were the dead judged before the great white throne?**

The dead were judged by what was recorded in the books, the result of what they had done.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 20:12

## Revelation 20:14 (id: 178784)

**What is the second death?**

The second death is the lake of fire.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 20:14

## Revelation 20:15 (id: 178785)

**What happened to all whose names were not found written in the Book of Life?**

All whose names were not found written in the Book of Life were thrown into the lake of fire.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 20:15

## Revelation 21:1 (id: 178786)

**What had happened to the first heaven and earth?**

The first heaven and earth had passed away.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 21:1

## Revelation 21:1 (#2) (id: 178787)

**What had replaced the first heaven and earth?**

A new heaven and earth had replaced the first heaven and earth.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 21:1

## Revelation 21:2 (id: 178788)

**What came down from heaven?**

The holy city, new Jerusalem, came down from heaven.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 21:2

## Revelation 21:3 (id: 178789)

**Where did the voice from the throne say that God would now dwell?**

The voice said that God would now dwell with human beings.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 21:3

## Revelation 21:4 (id: 178790)

**What had now passed away?**

Tears, death, grieving, crying, and pain had now passed away.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 21:4

## Revelation 21:6 (id: 178791)

**By what name did the one seated on the throne call himself?**

The one seated on the throne called himself the Alpha and the Omega.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 21:6

## Revelation 21:8 (id: 178792)

**What will happen to the cowardly, unbelieving, and abhorred and to murderers, fornicators, sorcerers, idolaters, and liars?**

Their place will be in the fiery lake of burning sulfur.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 21:8

## Revelation 21:9–10 (id: 178793)

**What is the bride, the wife of the Lamb?**

The bride, the wife of the Lamb, is the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 21:9–REV 21:10

## Revelation 21:12 (id: 178794)

**What was written on the gates of new Jerusalem?**

The names of the 12 tribes of the sons of Israel were written on the gates of new Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 21:12

## Revelation 21:14 (id: 178795)

**What was written on the foundations of new Jerusalem?**

The names of the 12 apostles of the Lamb were written on the foundations of new Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 21:14

## Revelation 21:16 (id: 178796)

**In what shape was new Jerusalem laid out?**

New Jerusalem was laid out square.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 21:16

## Revelation 21:18 (id: 178797)

**Of what was the city built?**

The city was built of pure gold, like clear glass.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 21:18

## Revelation 21:22 (id: 178798)

**Why is there no temple in the new Jerusalem?**

There is no temple in the new Jerusalem because the Lord God and the Lamb are her temple.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 21:22

## Revelation 21:23 (id: 178799)

**What is the source of light in new Jerualem?**

The source of light in new Jerusalem is the glory of God and the Lamb.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 21:23

## Revelation 21:27 (id: 178800)

**What will never enter new Jerusalem?**

Nothing unclean will ever enter new Jerusalem.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 21:27

## Revelation 22:1 (id: 178801)

**What did John see flowing from the throne of God?**

John saw the river of the water of life flowing from the throne of God.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 22:1

## Revelation 22:2 (id: 178802)

**For what purpose will people use the leaves of the tree of life?**

The leaves of the tree of life are for the healing of the nations.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 22:2

## Revelation 22:3 (id: 178804)

**Where will the throne of God and of the Lamb be?**

The throne of God and of the Lamb will be in the city.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 22:3

## Revelation 22:3–5 (id: 178803)

**What will there no longer be in the city?**

There will no longer be any curse, and there will be no more night.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 22:3–REV 22:5

## Revelation 22:7 (id: 178805)

**Jesus says that a person who does something with this book will be blessed. What does that person do?**

A person who keeps (obeys) the words of the prophecy of this book will be blessed.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 22:7

## Revelation 22:8–9 (id: 178806)

**What did the angel tell John to do when John fell down (bowed down) to worship the angel?**

The angel told John not to worship him but to worship God.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 22:8–REV 22:9

## Revelation 22:10 (id: 178807)

**Why was John told not to seal up the words of the prophecy of this book?**

John was told not to seal up the words of the prophecy of this book because the time was near.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 22:10

## Revelation 22:12 (id: 178808)

**What did the Lord say would be with him when he comes?**

The Lord said his reward would be with him when he came.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 22:12

## Revelation 22:14 (id: 178809)

**What blessings will those who was their robes receive?**

Those who wash their robes will be able to eat from the tree of life and enter the city by its gates.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 22:14

## Revelation 22:16 (id: 178810)

**How does Jesus say he is related to David?**

Jesus says he is the root and offspring of David.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 22:16

## Revelation 22:18 (id: 178811)

**What will God do to anyone who adds to the words of the prophecy of this book?**

God will add the plagues written in this book to anyone who adds to the words of its prophecy.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 22:18

## Revelation 22:19 (id: 178812)

**What will God do to anyone who takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy?**

God will take away the share of the tree of life and the holy city from anyone who takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy.

* **Associated Passages:** REV 22:19

## Revelation 22:20 (id: 178813)

**What are Jesus’ last words in this book?**

Jesus’ last words are, “Yes! I am coming quickly."

* **Associated Passages:** REV 22:20

## Revelation 22:21 (id: 178814)

**What is the last word in this book?**

The last word in this book is “Amen.”

* **Associated Passages:** REV 22:21

